Hey. How are you doing? I hope you are well. It’s good to see you smile.

 

Okay, now that we got the pleasantries out of the way, let’s get down to business. I have a favor to ask. I need some help. See, I have this very important plane to catch and all I can bring with me is anything I can fit inside my suitcase. My suitcase isn’t as large as I would like. I had it specially made and monogrammed with my initials, but I used the dimensions given to me by my family and it turns out that it isn’t quite as large as I would like. I actually have a lot of difficulty when packing because I can never fit everything I need in it.

 

Last time I took a trip, I had to leave behind extra shoes. I kept going back and forth between shoes and socks, shoes and socks, shoes or socks. I decided on socks for 2 reason: 1) I can fit 3 pairs of socks in the space the shoes would take up in my suitcase, and 2) I decided to wear my boots as the shoes I would wear the day I went to the airport. Wearing my boots on a trip to New Mexico should suffice for the entire trip. Unfortunately for me, when I landed in Albuquerque and stood up to leave the plane my ankles alerted me to the blisters that had formed during the flight. I guess I was sitting weirdly on the plane? I don’t know, man. Shit sucked. We stopped at a store on the way to the cabins and got some bandages, but that only helps so much.

 

It was fine, though. I didn’t regret my decision to bring extra socks. I wasn’t planning on doing about 10 miles worth of hiking the next day anyways. Except for the part where that was exactly what we did! It turned out okay, though. I decided to immerse myself in the experience and mostly forgot about my blisters until someone would ask me how my blisters were doing. Either way, I couldn’t fit extra socks and extra shoes in my suitcase and I made the decision to commit to the boots - so I had to live with the consequences of that decision. 

 

But, had I known we were going to do so much walking, I may have made a different decision while packing. I don’t know that I would have, in hindsight. I did end up going through all of my socks anyways, but not realizing I would have a good reason to want to change socks more than once a day, I may have chosen extra shoes. I just didn’t have full information. Other people did. Other people had already scheduled the entire weekend more or less. We had a rough itinerary for places to visit and in roughly what order. I wish someone would have told me. I think I even complained about it once during the trip. 

 

“Man, I wish I would have known what the plan was going to be. I feel like this information would have been helpful while packing my suitcase.”

 

But that’s in the past. Right now, I need to pack for a different trip. The problem here is twofold. I still have this same inadequately-sized suitcase and I don’t 100% know where I’m going. I have a generalized, conceptual idea of where I’d like to be going, but I couldn’t point to it on a map for you. I need your help to make sure I pack appropriately this time. I don’t want anymore curve balls thrown at me (mostly because I never seem to pack a bat). I’ve learned a lot from my packing failures, but I’m still not an expert. I’d like to poll the audience:

What are the most essential items to pack in my suitcase?
What notable items should I leave out that a novice may try to pack?
 

*If you’re under 30, then you are not qualified to answer this question. Sorry, looking for experts here :)

 

 

 

. . .

 

To my family:  It’s a metaphor. Please don’t get upset. I absolutely loved our trip to New Mexico and had a really good time, blisters be damned!