Please leave a voice message for <Becky Jenkins> after the tone.

 

<beep>

 

Mom,

 

It's me, your son. Please listen through to the end of the message. I know we don't talk as much as we used to. And I'm sorry.

 

I don't want my standoffish nature to cause you discomfort. I'm never going to stop needing my Mother. I still have so much to learn. I still have so much to experience. I still have so much to say.

 

I love you. And I know you know that. I just need to say something that you may not like. So I need to make sure you understand that this comes from a place of gratitude and love, not one of disrespect or selfishness.

 

I can't be here right now. I’ve wasted too much time loitering around this train station. I know how much you love flowers. I want to give you all the flowers, but I haven't even considered starting a garden yet. See, I've been stuck at this train station for far too long. You may not know this about train stations, but they aren't the best place to have gardens.

 

I wasn't purposefully avoiding the train. 
 I wasn't intentionally avoiding gardens.

 

I was still packing my bags.

 

No, no. Go back a bit. I was still figuring out what I wanted to put in my luggage. Here's how I figured that out:

 

When I was 10 years old all I wanted to do was have fun every day. School was no challenge for me, so I became a bit of a class disruption for my teacher. I enjoyed the attention I received from my peers. I enjoyed getting all A's on my report card. You taught me to value learning. You couldn't teach me how to challenge myself.

 

When I was 13 years old all I wanted to do was play soccer and football. I was naturally athletic, so I was better than most of the other players without having to put in a ton of work. I enjoyed making plays. I enjoyed the admiration I received from my peers. You taught me to respect others. You couldn't teach me how to push myself and not just coast off of my natural talent.

 

When I was 17 years old all I wanted to do was make everyone like me. Social anxiety and low self-esteem reared their head, so I settled for having a few close friends. You taught me the value of friendship. You couldn't teach me the value of myself.

 

Mom, this may sound like complaining or blaming you for my failings - it’s not. At least, not anymore. I've come to realize that all the stuff I thought you didn't teach me was all the stuff I had to learn for myself.

 

You taught me the value of learning so that I could challenge myself to learn.
 You taught me to respect others so that I would push myself to be better than them.
 You taught me the value of friendship so I could see the value I bring to relationships.
 You taught me what's important so that I would know what to put in my suitcase.

 

Now that I've finished packing, it is time for me to board the train. That's why I can't be here right now, Mom - I have to go. I have to take everything you taught me and go. My luggage is so heavy now that I regret not getting the kind with wheels. Hindsight is 20/20, as they say.

 

<brakes screeching>

 

That’s my train. I gotta go. I will come back with flowers. I will make the most beautiful garden for you to spoil.

 

<end voicemail>