“ Are you gonna live your life wondering
 Standing in the back looking around?
 Are you gonna waste your time thinking
 How you've grown up
 Or how you missed out? ”

 

Have you ever felt empathy for a ship bound by a glass bottle? That poor, sad ship was built to sail the seas and conquer the ocean, yet it stays dry, stuck in it’s glass prison. Its sails never feel the wind; its bow will never feel the rush of waves slapping against it as it pushes them out of the way. If only that ship-in-a-bottle had the tools it needed to overcome the glass barrier, then it could really take off and show everyone its full potential. 

 

The first time I took Adderall I was on the way to Waco for a big Magic tournament. I think it was a Star City Games Invitational Qualifier or something. Something like 200 people showed up and I wasn't nervous. I sleeved up my Abzan control deck with fresh sleeves when I got there and finalized my 75. I remember thinking “OMG, I love this deck. I’m just going to outplay everyone and win this thing” in game 3 of round 1. I had just baited my opponent into throwing the game to clench a close mirror match. I still remember the look on my opponents face when he realized his mistake. I’m sure the giant smile on my face wasn’t helping, either.  It felt great to be so focused. It felt like I had unlocked my sails and tasted salt water for the first time. My mind wasn’t constantly distracting myself with my own spin-off trains of thought. I could map out my next 5 turns and map out my opponent's next 5 turns so consistently that I started telling them what cards were in their hand just to get in their head. At the end, I was the only one left standing. I beat every person I played against (technically - the person I beat in the finals was the only person I lost to in the Swiss rounds). My first taste of brilliance.

 

“I am not your rolling wheel, I am the highway.”

 

The second and last time I took Adderall was last year. I was working for a startup wellness lab as the project lead and BA for their laboratory information system (LIS). I designed the framework of the database on the entire system and patient data in about 8 hours. I had this really great vision of embedding the system with attributes on all the data to create metadata that was real-time queried to provide filters for testing. There was a lot more to it than that, but that’s the in-a-nutshell explanation. I had it all fleshed out and written up into a 10-page Word document the same day. I sent an email out to the team that night with the document attached. Most of them didn’t understand it. One of the owners of the interfacing portal we were using (TrueMedIT) came by my office the next day to talk about my email - he actually understood it. We met for about 2 hours discussing the implications of it. I think it was then, in that moment, that I realized I was too low on the ladder. 

 

“ I am not your carpet ride, I am the sky “

 

I’ve never been accused of having my head in the clouds, but I was feeling pretty foggy after that. I made a point to keep in contact with the guys from TrueMedIT even after I left the lab. I’ve already done a few side jobs for them installing/configuring instrument interfacing software at another lab down in Houston. Now they are wanting to expand their operations and called me first (so they say) to offer me a job. My current contract happens to expire at the beginning of March, around the time they would want me to start. 

 

It isn’t an easy decision. I really like the company I work for right now, but it is a really exciting opportunity for me to leave. I can’t really get into details, so let’s just say that I’m conflicted. 

 

I’ve almost got a handle on things. Lately, I’ve been noticing some cracks in the glass. I can smell the salt in the air. 

 

 

 

“ I am not your blowing wind
 I am the lightning
 I am not your autumn moon
 I am the night
 The night “