“We’re just two lost souls living in a fish bowl, year after year.”

 

I’ve been having this dream that I’m down at a beach dock waiting for a boat. I’m not waiting on the dock, though. I’m laying in the sand the wrong way. My head pointing towards the water, the tide comes and splashes on my face. I even feel surprised that this happens. I straighten up at the waist to let the saltwater drip from eyes and curse the ocean for its misgivings.  And then I lay back down in time for the next wave. Rinse, repeat. It sucks sometimes being a lucid dreamer and knowing that you can just stand up and walk away, but not wanting to. I think this dream is my subconscious fears coming out to play. 

 

“Morty, you’re a piece of shit and I can prove it mathematically.” 

 

The ocean is my future. The ambiguous, possibility-filled, vastness of the water, covered by the fog of uncertainty. How poetic that water can erode even rock given enough time and I just lay there like limestone waiting to be sculpted into the grandest of canyons. No one ever talks about this, but no one marvels the Grand Canyon for the stone. The Grand Canyon is amazing because of what the water did. No one misses the rock that was displaced to form this great wonder of nature. I should probably move, then, and not just lay on the beach.

 

“You wrecked my whole world when you came and hit me like a hurricane.”

 

I guess I could wait for my boat on the dock. The ladder is only the tallest thing I have ever seen, with a very long list of prerequisites to climb. I remember in a few iterations of the dream I did try climbing the ladder to stay a little dryer while I waited. I ignored the sign posted next to it and just started climbing. I climbed and climbed for what felt like forever. I finally decided I wasn’t getting anywhere, so I came back down to the ground. It only took 7 steps to get back to the ground. Weird, right? 

 

The sign actually has 3 sections - the requirements differ based on the destination. Great, more anxiety. Yes, it is possible to feel anxiety in a dream. Thank you for you concern, but let’s keep going with the story. Bear with me guys, this is the part that gets more abstract than a woman saying “it’s fine.”

 

Section 1: Narnia

 

For those who wish to travel to Narnia on this day, the prerequisites for travel are as follows:

Never cough while climbing the ladder to the dock.
If the traveler looks down more than twice, they shall be removed from the itinerary altogether.
Answer this riddle: You can see me in water, but I never get wet. What am I?
 

Section 2: Westeros

 

Nope. Not even gonna bother with this one. I wouldn’t go there if the requirements were “Please take this $300mil for travel expenses.”

 

Section 3: The Top

 

For those who wish to travel to The Top on this day, the prerequisites are as follows:

Don’t forget your jacket, the weatherman says rain.
The traveler must climb the ladder for 10 years or more.
Answer this riddle: You will always find me in the past. I can be created in the present, but the future will never taint me. What am I?
 

 

 

 

 

“So you think you can tell . . . blue skies from pain.”