I remember coming home from school one day when I was in 4th or 5th grade and having a conversation with my dad that went something like this:
 
 Me: Hey, did you know that there is no such thing as cold? It’s just a word we made up to describe things with less heat than another thing! When we say something is cold it really just means that it has less heat relative to other things.

 

Mike: Oh really? How do you know that it isn’t the other way around? What if there is no such thing as heat and we just use that to describe something that is less cold than other things?

 

Me: . . .

 

Me: Uh, well. Umm

 

Me: I don’t know! That’s just what I read in science class today.

 

 

 

I think it was there, in that moment, that I realized we shouldn’t take everything we hear as fact without digging deeper. Had I digged deeper then I would have been able to answer his questions succinctly:

 

“Because heat is measurable, cold is not. What we describe as heat is the measured amount of energy something contains.”

 

 

 

I know some of you may be protesting at your screen right now that “cold is too measurable! WTF you think a thermometer is measuring?!” You’re close. That thermometer is actually measuring heat. We call it cold because it makes it easier to describe and communicate with people. And it also just feels natural to call it something else. 

 

We humans like to think that everything exists in dichotomy. Black or white; fun or boring; happy or sad; hot or cold. I don’t know if it’s because we think we relinquish control if we can’t easily classify things as one or the other or if it’s because we are uncomfortable with gradient scales, but it just seems like a natural, instinctual trait of humanity. Are you for or against [topic]? Do you love or hate cats? 

 

Maybe I just haven’t conformed yet. I don’t love or hate kale, but I eat it because it’s really good for you. I don’t think most topics are so cut and dry as to staunchly declare ‘for’ or ‘against’ as an ultimatum that I’m not permitted to revise in specific situations. I think the culture that imposes that restriction on itself is suppressing open-mindedness as a side effect. 

 

So let me be clear:

 

It’s okay to have an opinion loosely based on fact as long as you accept that premise and don’t cling to it as your dogma for survival in your social group.

 

It’s okay to change your opinion when presented with compelling evidence to the contrary of said opinion. That doesn’t make you a sell out or a poser or a pushover - it makes you an open-minded person who is capable of forming their own thoughts and opinions based on all of the data they have accumulated.

 

It’s okay to be comfortable at 78 degrees and also at 75 degrees even though 75 degrees is “colder” than 78 degrees. You don’t have to say you’re cold.

 

It’s okay to ask questions. Follow my dad’s advice, he’s the one who taught me this. Ask questions when someone starts talking some weird shit about cold being fake at the dinner table. Don’t just ingest it and catalog it into your new belief system.

 

It’s okay to digest the things you hear and figure out how they fit into your molded vision of the world. 

 

It’s okay think.