If you need to sneak snacks into a movie theater, then you can’t afford to go to the movies.  Change my mind. Hang on, let me present my argument first and save you the embarrassment of eating your words. 

 

This is disastrously scarce knowledge, but, especially for new releases, the theaters don’t take home very much of those ticket sales. The cut the theater actually gets to keep from ticket sales can be as low as 10% and is almost always less than 50%. “Wow,” you might be thinking to yourself, “how on earth do they pay their overhead then?” Popcorn. Mike ‘N’ Ike. $12 10oz drinks. That’s how they pay their bills. That’s how they write checks to their hard working employees who are so tired of hearing you complain about the prices they had absolutely no role in setting. I’m so tired of this selfish, instant-gratification-is-bae, it’s-okay-if-all-my-friends-do-it-too culture we’ve developed in America. Would you stay in a bed and breakfast and sneak in your own Pop-Tarts knowing full well that the owners have to pay 90% of that “bed” money to someone else and are hoping you buy their breakfast in the morning to pay their bills? Would you go to a restaurant and not tip your server, knowing full well that they don’t get a dime otherwise?

 

Shame on you, then. I don’t care if the service was poor. Don’t leave a $20 tip on a $55 bill then. Maybe your server is pissed off because the last 2 tables didn’t tip either. Maybe their anxiety is in overdrive because they aren’t sure if they can afford to eat tomorrow now that they’ve been stiffed all day and they are a little bit distracted and forget their fake smile once. If you didn’t factor at least a 20% tip into your bill, then you shouldn’t have walked into that restaurant. You have food at home. You’re cake is there waiting, but you want to go out and eat someone else’s cake without bearing the cost of this paradox. No, you can’t have one and eat one. Congratulations, you found a loophole. A slimy, immoral, disgraceful loophole.

 

It sure has gotten easier and more accepted to be a terrible human, but it really isn’t that hard not to be. I’ll give you a simple exercise you can use if you’re not sure. Whatever you are about to do, switch places with the person you are about to do it to. How do you feel (important: be honest)? If it doesn’t bother you that someone is doing that to you, then you’re probably fine. If it does, then maybe you need to rethink your actions. Find an alternative. Oh, you need an extra $15 for snacks and drinks at the theater, but you only have $8 for the ticket because you’re planning on spending that extra $15 on lunch tomorrow? Easy: pick one. Hey, look at that. Now that you have decided to skip the theater, you have money to tip your server. Whoa! Now the server you actually tipped has that extra $15 they needed to go to the movies and afford snacks.

 

What a weird coincidence.