I’ve had this note open for about an hour now without making it past the title and a blinking cursor on a lonely, white page. I created the note because I wanted to write something, but I didn’t just immediately start typing. I got up to use the restroom and fill up my drink. I sat back down and placed my freshly washed and dried hands on the keyboard. Apparently I’m practicing for my braille exam, as my hands just sit there while I stare off into nothing. 

 

I get up again to grab my guitar and start tuning it. A few minutes in, I receive a phone call from a friend wanting to discuss last night’s episode of Game of Thrones. I decide to answer the phone and just put it on speaker so I can continue tuning my guitar. I was merely distracting myself with the tuning anyway, so I’m not really sure why I didn’t just put my guitar back on the stand to answer the phone call. About 45 seconds into the call, my friend decides I’m busy and says he’ll talk to me later.

 

Someone told me today that I’m a terrible liar. I told them that I was taking that as compliment and we both laughed about it I think. Unfortunately, I’m way too good at lying to myself. It’s so exhausting, lying. I love the symbolism of someone wearing a mask to hide their true face, but I never mention the makeup I paint on my mirror to hide it from myself. I get so anxious when getting to know new people that I spend too much time convincing myself that I’m not terrified. 

 

I never cared much for the circus when I was younger. I didn’t get it. All the loud noises made it hard to think. All the crazy acrobatics made it hard to be calm. All the beautiful, dangerous animals made it hard to blink. All the silly clowns made it easy to smile. I held on to that thought. When the clowns weren’t on stage, I focused on their painted faces and giant, cherry red, water-squirting noses. I would think to myself ‘I can get through this circus no problem. The eruption of the crowd, the rain threatening a riot on the canopy overhead us, the beasts of myth brandishing their teeth at the  ever-growing crowd were all manageable if I focused on the clowns.’  

 

I knew the clowns were lying to us. They weren’t really breaking their legs under the clown car, or falling for that extremely obvious trap that the short, chubby clown would set for them. But I made a connection that day at the circus: it’s okay to lie to protect someone, especially yourself. I didn’t need to fear the lion when it let out a ferocious roar that rattled my bones in such a way that I could hear the melody line for “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star” playing in my pelvis. I was already donning a clown mask and pretending the shock wave from that echoing roar had smacked me clean between the eyes with such immense force that I was thrown from my seat with as much grace and poise as  a 6 year old could muster. My popcorn now flying through the air, my sister and father snapping their necks to see what’s going on, and me laughing my ass off. 

 

I promised myself that day that if I ever got scared again, I would bust out my clown cosplay. That was great when I was 6. People even thought it was cute and that I was an adorable, little kid who said all sorts of outlandish things at family gatherings because I loved attention.  I didn’t love attention; I don’t love attention. I was uncomfortable and I needed a distraction from the feeling of smallness. I needed to self-medicate my aversion to forced interaction with a fluffy red wig and glitter.

 

I got so good at doing this, lying to everyone, that I forgot I was lying. It’s difficult to decipher when the cosplay ends now. It’s hard for me to listen to my thoughts when I don’t know if I’m being honest with myself. I’m not even sure if I’m actually scared anymore or if I just really enjoying wearing makeup and a fake nose.  Sure, meeting new people is terrifying for me. Sure, I’m a lot more introverted than extroverted which makes it hard to even meet new people. I’ll even concede the fact that I would purposefully avoid interacting with people I didn’t know. 

 

This may be a train wreck in progress, but I’m through with lying to myself.

 

Doff the fluffy wig. I have bad enough social anxiety that I once missed one of my best friend’s birthday parties because I looked at the guest list and didn’t know 95% of the people on the list. I hadn't seen him in a while and I was really excited to go, but I stayed home instead.

 

Doff the water-squirting flower. I never remember people’s names when I meet them because I’m too focused on adhering to the proper social protocols when meeting someone that I can’t hear them speaking when they tell me their name. And then I get embarrassed because I want to ask them their name, but I know they just told me it. I just wasn't ready to listen.

 

Doff the clown mask. I started smoking cigarettes when I was in the Air Force because I had nothing in common with my roommate. I knew I wouldn’t feel comfortable sharing a room with someone for 6+ months unless we could bond over something. This had the added bonus of enlisting me into his group of friends that went drinking at the bar right outside the base gate every Friday night. I haven’t talked to that guy in about 8 years. I’ve quit smoking 6 times. It’s too much of a crutch for me. I don’t feel right without it. I’m not sure where to go from here to quit for good.

 

Doff the big, red nose. Until recently,  I don’t know if I have ever given someone a compliment or tried to make them laugh or smile without it just being to try to get them to like me. That part of me never left high school - I still just want everyone to like me, regardless of whether or not I even wanted to meet them in the first place. 

 

Doff the over-sized shoes. I’m concerned that these words will alienate me from some acquaintances or worse. I am legitimately scared that certain people will read this prose and realize they only ever wanted a clown. Maybe they also enjoy cosplaying as Bozo on occasion and just needed a partner. What scares me the most is the idea that, when certain people read this, they get angry of my deception and chastise me for it. I can’t blame them, I deceived myself as well. I’ll attest to the fact that it is unsettling. I’m sorry.

 

Doff the purple blazer with holes in the tail from “gunshots.”. I was diagnosed with depression about 8 years ago. I started taking anti-psychotics to help manage the symptoms of depression. I quickly learned that I didn’t enjoy taking pills everyday that dulled my mind. It was a struggle to learn how to manage my depression in a healthy way that didn’t include medication. I have scars on my left arm that remind me of the times I didn’t win the fight. I feel uncomfortable wearing short-sleeved shirts in public and always try to hide my scars from prying eyes. I still don’t know for sure what my end game is, but I try to keep my head up and focus on the sun. It at least keeps my eyes away from my arm.