 Jubilation.

 

Everyone knows the age-old idiom “you can’t judge a book by its cover,” but I’m not so sure everyone really understands why. I don’t think it’s as simple as the easy explanation. Sure, there’s a lot more to a book than than the cover. The contents of the book, the words on the pages, are the essence of the book. But, the cover is still a part of it. 

 

I think the real reason we shouldn’t judge a book by its cover is because we really suck at inspection. If you tell someone to inspect the cover of a book, they are immediately going to look for flaws. Everyone knows what a book cover should look like, so the easiest thing to notice are its cracks and creases. The worn, lightened spine on the left side from age, the crease in the upper-right corner of the front, the splash of red wine on the back from when it was the victim of a party foul are all too easy for our eyes to make out. 

 

No, you can’t judge the book by the flaws you first notice on the surface. In reading the pages, we learn the story of this book and, in turn, become aware of the features we missed on the first pass: those warm chocolate notes of character on the edges, slightly lighter than the rest of the casing show the elegant aging of the book; the creasing on the corners and cracks in the binding reveal the book’s ability to withstand stress without breaking; the firmness you feel when you hold it in your hand make manifest the craftsmanship with which it was built; the musk of the pages become perfume vapors you wish your nose would never let go of. You can’t know everything about the book from its cover, and of course we shouldn’t make all of our judgments about the book based on our inspection of its surface, but we can still be better. 

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

Yeah, you probably can’t judge a book by its cover, but that’s not really the book’s fault, is it? Stupid evolution looking for danger to try to keep us alive. We should try harder to look for the beauty and not the flaws. The first word of this note is “jubilation.” That’s because I do feel a sense of happiness and triumph today. I’ve gotten much better at looking for beauty. I’ve gotten much better at being optimistic. I don’t think anyone has called me Debby Downer in as long as I can remember. It’s weird forcing myself out of my comfort zone, but it’s also rewarding. Question your own gut reactions and the possibilities could be endless.

 

Or don’t. No one is going to force you to change, Debby.

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

https://open.spotify.com/track/6cQnrSlTxhHCCiUpKrs7g3?si=mtYCKg6wQ8WHosTDu_tcqw

 

“Jumpsuit” Twenty One Pilots