https://open.spotify.com/track/1JBa9B1iA4yNVpJ5wVGrZH?si=_93feRJLTlqi9cY1HdIvhQ

 

It’s really disconcerting when the woman you almost married becomes the toxic ex you hoped you’d never have. It really makes you start to question a lot of things. I always used to think I was a really good judge of character, but now I’m more open to the idea that I’m still as naive and gullible as I was when I was a child. I try to be an optimist. I try to be a good human being who looks for the good qualities in others. But now I’m wondering how much of my spine I’ve sacrificed to reach the moral high ground. 

 

Just trying to be a decent human being and offering to meet up to give her her stuff back turns into a fireworks show at the Ft. Worth Convention Center. There’s a fine line between trying to not be an asshole and becoming an invertebrate. I’m not sure which side of that line I’m standing on at this point. It’s starting to feel like the edges of them are getting thinner. The line may be so thin at this point that it might just be impossible to not be on both sides at the same time. 

 

https://open.spotify.com/track/0UZwcRQAk4QR09HtGRZhYC?si=B-Q5Niu9Tzm1N6upsjdOlA

 

Maybe I’m not as ready to move on as I thought I was. I went for a tour at some luxury apartments 5 minutes from my office today. Something about starting to look at new places and beginning to start thinking about maybe packing some things up (I hate packing so much!) has my subconscious acting out. I’ve been so distracted by work lately, that I haven’t really been processing my subconscious thoughts. I don’t really get “me time” any longer unless I want to sacrifice sleep (spoiler:  I don’t. As far as I’m concerned, sleep is “me time”). 

 

I returned the ring. I returned the dress. She changed her flight, though I haven’t changed mine  (I’m still going to Vegas). This is all that’s left to expunge her from my life. I just want to give her her stuff back. It doesn’t feel right to just throw it away, and I’m definitely not packing it and taking it with me. She was supposed to come get her things.

 

I don’t want to throw away her Crock-Pot - that’s the one we used for the queso at my birthday party. 

 

I don’t want to throw away this pastry tool thing I bought for her at the Pampered Chef party that my sister hosted.

 

This cardigan still faintly smells of her perfume. It’s cotton - it’s probably pretty flammable.

 

https://open.spotify.com/track/60wwxj6Dd9NJlirf84wr2c?si=3rCXVZfPSySlBMruLUj8kg

 

. . .

 

We’ll always have Paris. 