I went to my parents’ house yesterday to bring my little brother his birthday gift. This morning, while I was out on the back porch, a cardinal flew by me and landed in a tree just by the porch. I saw it perched there looking right at me, so I immediately opened the camera on Messenger to take a photo to send. I didn’t like the view I was seeing through the Messenger camera, so I decided to switch to my phone’s camera app so that I could zoom in on it better. 

 

By the time I had my camera up and zoomed in, the cardinal had turned to the side and most of it was now obstructed by the tree branch it rested on. I got up from my seat to get a better angle, hoping to catch a shot of the front or at least get the branch out of the way. The bird then flew away from there and I didn’t see where it went. I felt the tiniest bit of remorse in the missed opportunity, as I had not snapped a single photo in that time. 

 

This reminded me of how fleeting they all are: opportunity, moments, chances. The opportunity to grab a photo of a cardinal less than 5 feet away from me was presented, but I missed my chance because, in that moment, I hesitated. I was only interested in capturing that perfect shot. And maybe perfection is just too subjective and idealogical to pursue.  

 

There’s too much bias to perfection; there’s too much emphasis on perfection; there’s too much wrong with perfection. Forming a mold of perfection in which to pursue could very well be the thing that keeps us from achieving it in the first place. Maybe that first shot - the one with the bird looking directly at the camera, although not as framed as I would have liked - maybe that was the one I was supposed to take. 

 

I shouldn’t have hesitated and made my internal excuses that “maybe they won’t like this shot because it’s too hard to see the bird.” or “I can do better, just give me a minute.” That was the better. That was the perfect shot. You know why? That was the perfect shot because it’s the one that prompted me to take it. That was the perfect shot because it’s been the one I’ve been thinking about ever since I didn’t take it. That was the perfect shot because it was the one presented to me that grabbed my face and screamed “Stop what you’re doing and look at me!”

 

That was the perfect shot, but I hesitated and missed it. Don’t hesitate, my friends. Don’t give pause and question if this scenario fits into your preconceived idea of perfection. If it’s motivating you to move, then it is the perfect shot. And its calling you to action - don’t let that opportunity slip through your fingers. 

 

That is perfect. Perfect isn’t some theoretical construct of ideal parameters. Perfect is exactly what is needed, nothing more or less. Maybe you don’t think this opportunity is perfect. Maybe you don’t think you are perfect. I bet you are perfect to someone. I bet you are exactly what they need.