I’ve been singing too loudly and my neighbors have started to complain. Let them complain. Let them miss their peace and quiet as they bask in the symphony of my rising. Let them cry out. Let their emotions escape their bodies through the ducts of their eyes. I always thought the eyes were the doorway to the soul. And I’ve never trusted someone who didn’t smile with their eyes. If I can’t hear your smile in your voice, then I don’t know if I can really trust that it’s genuine. There’s so much misinformation and falsified truths running around lately. I need your smile to be real; I need your laugh to be authentic; I need to hold your eyes in mine. 

 

Maybe I want that embrace more than I should. Maybe I want that embrace more than whoever is being embraced. It’s getting harder to tell the difference. My fingers are sore from all of this thinking. This empty three bedroom house seems larger every day. Calloused hands make for lousy company, but I don’t have any desire to entertain guests. 

 

Guests are noisy. Guests touch my stuff. Guests require attention. That’s the same reason I don’t want to get a new dog - I don’t think I can give it the attention it desires.  I don’t think it would be fair to the dog to force it to live in solitude. I haven’t yet met a dog that doesn’t crave attention in some amount every day. And I think a cat is out of the question. I’m not letting some asshole cat mess with all my stuff for 10 hours a day while I’m gone. No sir.  Veto.

 

I think I’ve averaged about 5 hours of sleep per night this week. I need to try harder to get more sleep. I do love sleep, but simultaneously I hate going to bed. Loose lips may sink ships, but cognitive dissonance can crack any foundation. I even created a new alarm for 6 AM so I could wake up and work out before getting ready for work. I haven’t even heard that alarm this week. I’ve slept right through it and then some. 

 

I can’t hear my own heartbeat anymore. I used to fall asleep to the rhythmic thumping in my chest. I would stare at the wall while whatever was playing on my computer faded into white noise. The background white noise never used to be too loud to hear my own pulse. I need a holiday. I need to reset my chi. I need to clear my throat. 

 

 

 

. . . 

 

 

 

“ In restless dreams I walked alone
 Narrow streets of cobblestone
 'Neath the halo of a street lamp
 I turned my collar to the cold and damp
 When my eyes were stabbed by the flash of a neon light
 That split the night
 And touched the sound of silence
 

 

And in the naked light I saw
 Ten thousand people, maybe more
 People talking without speaking
 People hearing without listening
 People writing songs that voices never share
 And no one dared
 Disturb the sound of silence
 

 

Fools, said I, you do not know
 Silence like a cancer grows
 Hear my words that I might teach you
 Take my arms that I might reach you
 But my words, like silent raindrops fell
 And echoed in the wells of silence
 

 

And the people bowed and prayed
 To the neon god they made
 And the sign flashed out its warning
 In the words that it was forming
 And the sign said, the words of the prophets are written on the subway walls
 And tenement halls
 And whispered in the sounds of silence”