Social interaction is such a major part of the human experience. Each and every one of us has our own mind, our own thoughts, and our own perspective on the dozens upon dozens of idiosyncrasies of the individuals we interact with each day. It’s often hard to know how to react to certain things. There’s basically two ways to react: impulse and reasoning. 

 

Impulses have the benefit of feeding into our own mind’s bias of how we should behave or react in certain situations. We like to feed our impulse because it <i>feels</i> right. And following your gut has the extra feel good consequence of self-validation. Doing what you feel is right in the moment allows you to take a proactive line of thought that you are capable and able to ascertain the correct response very quickly to any given scenario. Rather than feeling reactive, you are already acting as soon as the stimulus presents itself.

 

Reason has the benefit of allowing that bias to take a step back and evaluate the variables presented in that moment and make the best, informed decision of how to react or behave. Reason doesn't allow your gut to control your mind. Reason demands more. Reason requires logic and deductive reasoning to decipher the codex of social interactions and acceptable response to stimuli. Unfortunately, logic is not infallible, and in this case, sometimes irrelevant.

 

It’s not always possible to use logic and reasoning to deduce the proper response to “How was your day?” or “What are your plans this weekend?” There are just too many variables to sift through in such a tiny sliver of time warranted for the response to have enough information to make a good, informed decision. 

 

Who is asking this question? Do they actually care how my day was or are they just being polite or making small talk? What sort of relationship do I have with this person? How long have we known each other? Do I know their family? Are we friends?  Did they have a shit day and used “How was your day?” to segue into their need to vent? Do they think I may need to vent? 

 

Who is that guy 3 seats over that keeps glancing our way? Does he know us? Does he know the person I’m talking with? Does he wonder how my day went and is impatiently awaiting the response, as well? What time is it? Has it been a day yet? Mid-morning is an odd time to ask this question. It must be harmless small talk. Well, my impulse was to answer back “Pretty good, thanks. How about yours?” That may be too leading. I think this is probably just small talk and I’m quite busy for now. I don’t want to be put in a situation where they actually wanted to start a conversation that I need to eject myself from. Okay, I’ve figured out my answer:

 

“Thanks, you too.”

 

Nailed it.