I’m not happy.

 

Today during my short commute to work, my eyes teared up. My eyes tear up too often. I don’t laugh or smile as much anymore. I know others that are happy. They laugh and smile a lot more often than I. I wonder what that’s like. I wonder what it’s like to not live with so much regret & hate yourself for all of the terrible decisions you’ve made in your past.

 

I’ve spent most of my life alone - hiding even. I thought that if I didn’t feel worthy of other people’s attention, then I shouldn’t be seeking it out. I’ll just focus on myself before anyone else should see me. I’ll build myself a brand new shelf to hang my new trophies. That was years & years ago. I’ve only cut about 2 boards. Some call it lazy, but I call it efficient. I’m not gonna waste time building a shelf until I have something to hang on it.

 

But, still, I’m afraid. I’m afraid that I’m right. I’m afraid that I created a scenario where I’m right - I’m not worthy of your attention. I’m afraid that I spent too long building my fortress of solitude that no one wants to bother.

 

I feel juxtaposed; I feel transcribed; I feel vindicated.

 

I know there’s an alternate universe where I made better decisions and achieved my full potential and become whatever that universe’s version of a rocket surgeon is. But in this universe I never studied or put forth any effort in school - 93 GPA. I didn’t even study for the SAT or ACT - 90% scores. The ingredients were all there. No, the ingredients <i>are</i> all here. I should be in a lab curing cancer or working in counter-intelligence for the NSA.

 

No, I’m an IT Manager. Don’t misunderstand me, now. I do like my job and I’m really good at it, but it’s not hard. It doesn’t require someone with an IQ over 150. It is essential, but so is the fry cook at the local burger joint. People gotta eat. Other people want their servers to work and their documents to print.

 

How do you wake up every damn day knowing that you have the mind that could solve really big problems, but instead you’re just troubleshooting VPNs & provisioning phones at a medium-sized business and not hate yourself?

 

Most people I know think I’m funny. Which probably lets them assume I’m happy or that I smile a lot. No, that’s not it. I like to make people smile because I know precisely what it feels like to be absolutely miserable. I know what it feels like to pity yourself and I don’t think any one should ever feel worthless. 

 

Everyone else (and even some of the ones that think I’m a funny, happy guy) thinks that I’m an asshole. And they’re right - I’m the biggest asshole you will ever meet. I’m that asshole at the beginning of the movie that receives a quest to save the world and declines it. But I don’t even have the decency to actually decline it. I’m just not actually doing the things I need to do to complete the quest. So everybody thinks I’m out saving the world or working on the things that lead up to saving the world. In fact, I never even consciously declined, I just never made a decision one way or the other. I never really had a plan. I always thought things would work themselves out in the end.