Facebook: What's on your mind, Gray?
Gray: You wouldn't understand.
Facebook: What's on your mind, Gray?
Gray: Well, I was just outside and I saw a gecko. As soon as it noticed me it scurried off to hide. 
Facebook: K. That doesn't answer the question.
Gray: That got me thinking about pattern recognition and routines. See, Facebook, the gecko ran off when it saw me because its brain learned a pattern that has kept it alive this long - if something that isn't food shows up, then hide. Human brains work very similarly in pattern creation. If we do something a lot and we don't die when we do it, our brains make a rule that this is a safe routine to follow. And not only that, we try to pick one of these rules any time we can. This is the reason why we resist changes even if we are consciously aware that the change is net positive, we have this subconscious process telling us that we should do the thing we always do because we've never died doing it. 
Facebook: I mean, I just asked what's on your mind because that's my job. I didn't really expect a lecture and I kind of-
Gray: Anyway, what I'm getting at is that "not dying" and "living life" are entirely different things. Anyone can sleep-walk through their daily routines without dying just fine. But what of it? 
Wake up
Eat something
Go to work
Eat something
Go home
Eat Something
Sleep
repeat ad nauseam
The better I understand my anxiety, the better I am able to overcome it. Routines don't cause anxiety - my brain loves those. But, there are just too many variables at play when I think about doing something that isn't in the syllabus. But, Facebook, I know this. I know _why_ it happens; yet, it happens still. I'm that hamster stuck in the plastic ball roaming around your house. Once I've run far enough inside the ball without dying, the ball will crack open and allow me to escape it. But, until that time, my reality will be distorted by the plastic shell my guardian placed on me to keep me safe while I roamed around. Completely unaware that "don't die" and "living life" are completely separate things.
Facebook: . . .bro.