Hello, reader. How are you today? 

 

My office building had a grand opening party today. So many people showed up that guests had to start parking on the street because the parking lot filled up. I went down stairs to get my normal 4:30 Blood & Honey (Oh, BTW, my office also has a free bar from 12:00-5:00 pm every day) but there were so many people there that I just walked into the kitchen area, grabbed a coffee mug, put water in it, and went back upstairs. 

 

Sometimes I forget that I’m an introvert. I want so badly to be an extrovert, but it just isn’t how my brain works. I forget that as soon as I get to the bottom of the stairs, I’m going to realize that there are ~100 people here and I’m going to immediately feel uncomfortable. After I came back upstairs my boss was like “Hey, let’s go get some cake and tea.” So I went downstairs with him and grabbed some food stuffs and got a glass of wine. One of the girls from the front desk was showing someone around the building and popped her head in my office on the way by and said something like “Gray, why aren't you downstairs enjoying the party?” I avoided the question and said something like “What? I went down and grabbed some food and a glass of wine and then came back to my office, haha!” She just rolled her eyes at me and moved on. I’m still not sure if I was supposed to tell her the truth or not. I tend not to open up to acquaintances, another trait of introverts.

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

I’ve been envisioning this story of me wearing a mask, but playing it off like I’m not. Or, maybe, I’m just not willing to admit that I’m not showing my true face. I have had a dream about it twice. One time, I was at the office. That’s the part that scares me. I need to be me at the office. If I’m wearing a mask there and pretending about stuff and things, what else do I lie about?

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

“I will lie awake

 

Lie for fun and fake the way I hold you

 

Let you fall for every empty word I say. . .”

 

-Me vs. Maradona vs. Elvis, Brand New

 

https://open.spotify.com/track/3RQTF7vKlcO5OoBQqcDMKo?si=Dn8tX37hR4uBZizdqm8SRQ