Today is Thursday. I’ve always had such a strange relationship with Thursday. For better or for worse, Thursday always seems like the most memorable day each week. This Thursday in particular we lost Chester. 

 

I’d planned to space out my notebook scrawling a bit more than this, but I feel compelled to deliver this one on this day. I only wish - no, I really hope - we haven’t developed a culture that makes what happened today so common.

 

*Disclaimer: The following is not meant to be presented as scientifically accurate.*

 

I’ve been up all night staring at my computer monitors. Sometimes, often times, I’m afraid of shutting down and going to bed. No, I’m not afraid I will miss my computer. And I’m most assuredly not afraid of the dark. It’s hard for me to describe, but I’ll try to explain why in a way that can make sense.

 

Breathe in.

 

There exist at least 3 types of consciousness. I’m only going to refer to 2 of them: the conscious and subconscious. Thoughts in the forefront of the mind are said to be conscious thoughts. These are the run-of-the-mill thoughts that you actively focus on. The subconscious is said to be the things that your brain is processing in the background. Most users don’t pay any attention to their subconscious (I’m just gonna call this subcon from now on) because they don’t need to. Your brain (brain stem) takes care of telling your lungs to breathe.

 

Now, breathe out.

 

But, what if you could manipulate what’s going on in your subcon? What if you had some level of control over what information was stored there, so-to-speak?

 

Let’s back up a little. I skipped ahead a bit. There exists a phenomenon known as lucid dreaming. Lucid dreaming happens when a person is asleep and dreaming, yet simultaneously fully aware of the dream, as if awake. Wholly inside this dream world their brain is creating, a lucid dreamer can actually manipulate the dream. If, in the dream, they are walking down a dark alley, the lucid dreamer could have a man with bags full of money jump out at them rather than the man with the knife they feared would be there.

 

Breathe in.

 

I say this as if just anyone could do this naturally and manipulate this dream into a happy ending and not wake up in a gasp of air because they thought they were bleeding out in an alley behind Rosco’s. It takes practice. The tactic I learned is the very same one suggested to me when I first learned about lucid dreaming:

 

If you “wake up” and think you might be dreaming (side note - most of the time, when I find myself in a lucid dream, it feels like I just woke up into the dream), check the time. Find a clock on the wall, a wristwatch, a microwave, or anything with the time and take note of it. Then, immediately do that again. You’ll know if you’re dreaming when you check the time. Either it won’t make any sense (I’ve had times show up as 6:[triangle][star]) or the times won’t follow chronologically. If you check the time and it shows 7:00 and then check the time and it shows 3:42, then you’re in a lucid dream.

 

Now, breathe out.

 

So what am I getting at here? I’m afraid of shutting down my computer and going to bed because I might have to manipulate a dream to not wake up in cold sweats, wondering how a person can even bleed that much? No. Let’s return to the original topic before we backed up to discuss lucid dreaming.

 

What if the subcon could be manipulated?

 

We’re going to need to make some assumptions here, without which this entire concept will fall apart. This is the only way I can explain this, so let’s just assume the following are true so we can move forward:

 

Assumption #1: What we refer to as dreaming takes place in the subconscious.

 

Assumption #2: Lucid dreaming, that is to say the dreams of lucid dreamers, also takes place in the subconscious.

 

Assumption #3: I’m not crazy

 

Okay, we’ve completed the prerequisite. Shall we begin?

 

Well, hold on. I’ve realized a point I left out that may be cause for contention. I should point out, more directly, that lucid dreams differ from just ‘using your imagination while laying down with your eyes closed’ by the very fact that I previously stated: you are asleep during them. 

 

Okay, now let’s begin.

 

Breathe in deeply.

 

Imagine, if you will, a scenario where a person has become very adept at lucid dreaming. Rather than just changing the guy at the end of the alley into a money man, this person can change any detail they desire. The alley is too dark? Let’s add some street lamps. Why is there trash everywhere? Let’s clean that up. While we’re at it, let’s actually just ditch this alley, ditch money man, ditch Rosco’s, and get on my private jet. Now I’m walking down the steps of my jet and the POTUS is waiting to greet me. Why is the POTUS waiting to greet me? Obviously, I’m the Emperor of Mars and Ambassador for the UP (United Planets)!

 

That may seem way too complex for someone to do while they are asleep, but that’s precisely my point - it is. No one could reasonably be expected to make that many decisions without using the conscious part of their brain. Which brings us to assumption number four.

 

Assumption #4: A person can either be asleep or using the conscious parts of their brain, but not both at the same time.

 

I must be making decisions & acting on these decisions using the subcon part of my brain. Some people may read this and think things along the lines of “so what?” or “why are you making such a big deal out of this?” Subconscious. Sub. Conscious. I’m not supposed to be consciously aware of anything going on in my subconscious - that’s what it means.

 

Now, breathe out. See what I did there? As soon as you become consciously aware of your breathing, it leaves your subconscious and you are forced to breathe on your own. You can’t have both. You can’t manipulate your subcon and have it stay there. You are either aware (conscious) of your breathing or you aren’t. So how can I manipulate my subcon in a lucid dream? How can I take control over something if I’m not aware of it?

 

Obviously, I’m aware it exists, but I don’t know what it holds. Picture a cardboard box that no one has ever seen before. We’ve never seen this box before, so we couldn’t possibly know what’s inside the box. Well, except for the part where I actually do know what is in the box I just showed you. I failed to mention before that I actually own the facility that creates those boxes. I’m actually the one who gave the order of what to put inside the box.

 

Breathe in.

 

No, please just take my word for it. Don’t open the box. If you do, a man with a knife will jump out and I’ll bleed out in a dark alley behind Rosco’s. And, trust me, no one wants that less than I do. I’d much rather just keep making boxes and filling them with all the things I no longer want or need to think about. I’m not trying to coin a new term or start a scientific debate with no supporting data. I’m simply attempting to describe my experiences.

 

My lucid dreaming skills have bled over to my waking hours.

 

I can start a train of thought, or have a train of thought, or an experience, or a feeling and realize I want nothing to do with it. So I put into a box and ship it express to my subcon. Great, I got rid of it. I don’t need to worry about that anymore - it’s gone. At least until I fall asleep and start lucid dreaming. 

 

Sometimes, oftentimes, I’m afraid of shutting down and going to bed. Some things are just easier to deal with while safely asleep in my bed.

 

Now, breathe out.

 

But, that doesn’t mean I won’t keep trying to avoid them. As I stare at my computer monitors, I give my conscious mind a distraction while I tape up the boxes holding all those thoughts I want to suppress. At a time in the future, I may have the tools I need to confront the contents of the boxes. For now, I’ll keep vigilant in my lucid dreaming. I’ll snap my fingers to change the snake into a staff. I’ll blink my eyes to change the knife into a bag of money. I’ll breathe in through my nose and out through my mouth.

 

Sometimes, oftentimes, I’m afraid of shutting down. No, I’m not afraid of the dark. Most days and most nights I find my fears take the shape of small, cardboard boxes.

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

Rest in peace, Chester Bennington. If only I had known you needed some boxes, I would have gladly donated them. You will be missed. Your legacy will be grand.