I used to play this online game called League of Legends a lot. When I first started playing, I made an assumption about some mechanics in the game. A quick primer for any of you who aren’t familiar with League of Legends (LoL): Basically, you play as a team of 5 characters called Champions against another team of 5. The win condition of the game is to destroy the enemy base called the Nexus. In order to do this, players will kill little minions that spawn every X seconds for gold to buy items (you only get the gold from it if you deal the killing blow, not just for it dying near you). You can also kill enemy Champions and some structures for more gold than the minions give you. The Champions themselves have basic attacks that you can use whenever you want and 4 special abilities that have cooldowns that force you to wait a certain amount of time before you use that ability again. Most of the abilities of Champions have some sort of resource cost in addition to the cooldown in order to activate it. I made an assumption that, because the cost of activating these abilities is so high, it must be best to never use these on the minions and save them for hitting enemy Champions with them. I went so far down this rabbit hole that I even made fun of other players for “wasting” their abilities on minions. 

 

So, basically I’m doing my thing and playing LoL with this sacred cow I’ve created where I never use abilities on farming gold off minions and I reach a plateau. My skill level in the game quickly accelerated compared to other newer players to the point where I was clearly better than the guy who introduced me to the game, but I was no longer really getting any better. My opponents were out-farming me; my teammates were flaming me for “losing my lane” (doing worse than my direct opponent); my enjoyment of the game was tapering. I’m much too competitive as a person to be okay with a plateau this early into a game. I had to revisit my approach to LoL.

 

What was stopping me from getting better? 

 

What part of the game was I glossing over that was pigeon-holing me into this slump?

 

So I started watching pro player streams on Twitch. I watched them - literally all 10 players in the game- consistently using abilities to kill the little minions when it was necessary. “Huh,” I thought, “that’s curious.” Turns out I was half right with my cost-benefit analysis. Yeah, these ability cooldowns are an important resource, but farming gold off minions is actually important enough to use those cooldowns. My sacred cow had been sacrificed for science. 

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

I used to always think I was a night owl. I would tell people this all the time when it came up in conversation (don’t worry, I’m not a vegan who tells people they are vegan for absolutely no reason). “I naturally stay up late, it’s just how my body works,” I would say. For 30 years I believed this, but a couple weeks ago I started going to bed early. 10, 9, even 8:45 once. And then I woke up before my alarm. So then I moved my alarm back. That didn’t work. I started waking before that alarm, too. I felt great - fully rested and ready to tackle the day (which meant that I headed straight for my espresso machine, out of routine). 

 

Now my alarm goes off at 6 and I just get up out of bed without snoozing (wow, I never thought I would ever say that with a straight face). Last Sunday, I woke up at 0345 to catch a flight to Georgia for work and used up the last of my coffee. I made a reminder to order more on Thursday so that it would be delivered Friday when I got back. It didn’t actually get delivered until today because I ordered it after 3 blah, blah, but I wasn’t struggling. Getting to sleep at a reasonable time and waking up after a good amount of sleep has actually lowered my dependency on caffeine a fair bit. I no longer need 2-4 shots of espresso just to function in the mornings.

 

Huh, that’s curious. I wonder what sacred cows you’ve been holding onto that could be revisited. 

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

Drive by Incubus

 

https://open.spotify.com/track/7nnWIPM5hwE3DaUBkvOIpy?si=WDGDP6fFQOS0BGAeVITLwg