Man, the length between posts is getting longer and longer. I wish I could say that it’s because I’ve been spending all my spare time on school, but I try not to lie when it isn’t necessary. I’ve actually been trying to write. I have about 8 pieces that are all half-written. I can’t seem to stay focused long enough to finish them. Most of my writing is in-the-moment or “right off the cuff,” so to speak. I usually just sit down to start writing, then get up when I’m done. But I’ve started getting up before I’m done. And then not returning to finish what I started. After that, it’s over. It’s too hard to get back into that head space again to finish the piece.

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

I finished the first two seasons of “The Man in the High Castle” a few days ago. Holy shit, Batman. There were so many moments in that show that evoked such strong emotional responses from me. The acting in some scenes was so incredible that I jumped up and shouted to the screen “I know, man. I know!” or something to that effect. It’s just such a good distraction from the circus going on in my world. I’m not even disgusted by the ideals presented in the show as much as most people probably are. I completely understand the reasoning for what the Reich is trying to accomplish. I don’t think we have to kill everyone with “inferior genes” to accomplish it, but the pursuit to make the human race as grand as possible is a worthy one. In fact, it is actually required. This planet has an expiration date. If we don’t figure out how to migrate to another one before then, Homo Sapiens will become extinct. It is in our best interest to pool our resources into bettering humanity. The benefits are at least three-fold. The quality of life will increase as we grow our technological domain, we will have the ability to populate other planets, and we will learn more about our universe. 

 

Imagine once we’ve figured out how to stop cancer from ever happening in the first place. We already know that cancer is caused by DNA replication gone wrong. Our bodies are pretty good at proof-reading, though, and fix somewhere around 99% of DNA replication errors when making new cells, but everytime your body produces a new cell there is a 1% change that it was formed with a DNA mutation that causes it to become a malignant tumor. That may not sound like a big deal, but an adult produces an average of 50-70 Billion cells Imagine once we’ve figured out how to stop cancer from ever happening in the first place. We already know that cancer is caused by DNA replication gone wrong. Our bodies are pretty good at proof-reading, though, and fix somewhere around 99% of DNA replication errors when making new cells, but everytime your body produces a new cell there is a 1% change that it was formed with a DNA mutation that causes it to become a malignant tumor. That may not sound like a big deal, but an adult produces an average of 50-70 Billion cells every day. 1% of 50-70 Billion is still a very large number. Multiply that by (365 * 80) + 1/4 of that  (leap years!) and you have a very large number of chances to develop cancer cells. 

 

Who even cares about the planet, right? Humans may die out of genetic disease before our sun explodes into a super nova anyway! We do need to pursue science. We do need to better our understanding of the universe. We don’t need to kill off the inferior specimens of the species. Let’s just say, for the sake of argument, that there is truth to the Nazi proclamation that there is a Master Race and that it happens to be A. So, B, C, D, & E shouldn’t exist? If A is the Master Race, why not just have all the A’s work together to make the world better and, out of the kindness of their heart, allow B-E to live in this world you have created for them? The response to that is, of course, “Well races B through E are wasting resources that should be reserved for A’s. We don’t have unlimited resources.”

 

See, this is the problem with extremist anything. Making the world better is a noble pursuit. Taken to the extreme it becomes genocide. Yes, it is true that if there is an obvious weak link, trimming it improves the entire community. Look to herd mammals as a perfect example. Antelope will only travel as a herd at the pace that the slowest can travel. So, when being pursued by a predator like the lion, the slower, weaker ones in the back are the ones that get killed and eaten by the pride. This increases the strength of the entire herd and makes each individual member less susceptible to a predator. But we aren’t herd mammals. We don’t have predators that attack us in the savannas of Africa. We don’t need our weakest to be destroyed so that we can strengthen our pack. We evolved passed this. We need our strongest to fix what caused our weakest to be in the state they are. Or we need them to shield the weakest from the dangers of the 21st century: virus, disease, and corporations exploiting the addictive properties of sugar to get consumers to spend a dollar on barely-beef cheeseburgers that will lead them on the path to obesity and heart-disease. 

 

Sorry, I just needed a Patsy to divert attention from myself while I finished my glass. In all seriousness, I actually had a thought about that the other day. If sugar-enriched fast food is so blatantly bad for you, and the FDA exists, then why aren’t there more regulations on fast food restaurants? I understand that there are economic implications to modifying our fast food culture. I don’t necessarily understand what they are, but I know they exist. I’m sure it’s very similar to why tobacco and alcohol have remained legal and just become taxed goods while marijuana, which actually has shown promise as a medicine, was declared a Category 1 Controlled Substance in the 60’s* . Imagine a world where a Big Mac costs you $10 and the salads you get at Burger King don’t have sugar in them. 

 

I don’t want to fall too far down this rabbit hole, but what I’m getting at is this: I don’t believe Capitalism is the correct paradigm for being the best human race we can be. It is, however, probably the best for creating pockets of happiness and was definitely better than what we had before. The United States of America were declared independent from Great Britain because the people figured out that there are better ways to live. There are better ways to govern the people. The people didn’t want the government to go away, they wanted it to be effective without being oppressive. They wanted it to encourage growth and allow individuals to pursue, well, happiness. The purpose of the small body of elected officials governing the masses was to drive progress and was setup as a check system to make sure an uneducated mass wasn’t steering the country in the wrong direction. The Republic of the United States of America was founded with the intention of the educated leading the country, with permission from the citizens, toward the correct future, towards progress. Unfortunately, the small body of elected officials is no longer the educated, well informed group it was designed to be. We’re falling behind. President Donald Trump was on to something when, during his Presidential Campaign, his team came up with the slogan “Make America Great Again!” “Great” is the highest level of “good.” We’ve fallen off that pedastool and I don’t believe it would be accurate to call the USA great right now. We once were, we once were so great. 

 

I hope to stay optimistic about the future of the Reich. I mean, America. Millennials are getting educated and voicing their opinions - they aren’t just keeping their heads down and voting for incumbents. Sieg heil, friends. 

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

*I  didn’t look that one up, might be wrong.