My oldest friend gave an engagement ring to his best friend last night. We gathered up her closest friends and family at our friend Blake’s house and planned a surprise for her there. We even created an event on Facebook to make it look like a normal party at Blake’s. It was a spectacular evening. I think everyone had a great time except for Chelley. She seemed like she was in a bad mood the entire night after I accidentally hinted that she might possibly be from Arkansas or something. I don’t know, it was weird. I’ll have to puzzle that one out later, I suppose. Anyway, I’m really glad that two people I deeply care about are able to find happiness in 2017. I don’t like the way I phrased that. I don’t think happiness is something you find. I think happiness is a consequence of a journey - a lifelong journey that has no defined destination. Happiness is created and shared and relished along the way. There’s no big-box store in the universe that you need to travel to in order to purchase it. Happiness can only be manufactured inside the hearts of people. Happiness requires special ingredients to make.

 

The ingredients can vary from person to person. Some will make happiness out of coaching their daughter’s tee-ball team. Some will produce happiness while working on the team that discovers a new, effective cancer treatment. Others will find the ingredients they need in the eyes of their sweetheart. The only ingredient that matters is the social one - relationship building and interaction. I’m not sure if it is possible to make happiness alone, my research definitely suggests otherwise. That really sucks for me. I like my alone time. I live by myself in a three bedroom house for a reason: I don’t want any roommates. Roommates make noise; roommates make messes; roommates could eat my food and drink my beer - I don’t want any of that. I don’t even really care to meet new people usually. I’m pretty selective about who I choose to spend energy and/or time on. Time is, after all, the most valuable resource I have. And I really, really don’t want to waste it. I feel like I’ve wasted too much already. I don’t want to digress into that topic again. I’ve already talked about that one a bit and that is not at all the current subject. 

 

I don’t care to socialize with people just for the sake of socializing. I absolutely abhor small-talk. The entire concept baffles me. I just don’t understand why people choose to engage in conversations that have no substance to them. No one is exchanging knowledge to a colleague or informing them of future events they should be aware of. They’re just talking about how the line at Chipotle was longer than usual today and that neither of them really liked the new queso. So, these two people basically just told each other things that both of them already knew. Of course neither of you like the new queso - no one likes the new queso. Of course the line was longer than usual today - Chipotle just released their new queso! Is Captain Obvious writing the scripts for small-talk? We may as well all talk about how water is wet and when you boil it it gets really hot and you shouldn’t drink it or it will burn you. Also, by the way, burning yourself is painful. So try not to do that, buddy. Sweet, I mastered small-talk. Next. 

 

I think my aversion to small-talk is what makes me so terrible at keeping in touch with people I no longer see regularly. I just don’t really have anything important to say to them. Most people don’t want to have random conversations about how the Equifax breach happened and why it shouldn’t have (because it was preventable)  and our role as U.S. Citizens in this whole fiasco. So, I just say nothing because I don’t really care to talk about the weather or how their day went or what their plans are this weekend. I don’t really care that your sister bleached her hair again or that your dog is finally house-trained. Actually, I do care about the dog part. 

 

I think that once I finally dig deeply enough to understand, or at least investigate, why I care more about the well-being of a random dog I’ve never met than a person I saw 40 hours a week for 6 months, I’ll probably also understand small-talk. I’m sure it has something (a lot) to do with anxiety, but I’m not ready to fall down that rabbit hole yet. I’m gonna focus on school instead. I start in a week. I don’t know when I’ll next come up for air after that, but I’m sure it won’t be before I’m declared MIA by most.

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

 “But she said, where'd you wanna go?
 How much you wanna risk?
 I'm not looking for somebody
 With some superhuman gifts
 Some superhero
 Some fairytale bliss
 Just something I can turn to
 Somebody I can kiss 

 

I want something just like this”