I remember a time when I felt like a giant. 

 

When I was about 6 years old, my day dreaming would often find its way to the future. The sun was always so bright there. I couldn’t imagine anything getting in my way. If you asked me what my future holds, I would have never stopped talking. The possibilities seemed endless.

 

But when I was 12 years old, I felt much less than giant. My day dreaming often found its way to the future, but only about an hour ahead. Social anxiety reared its ugly head and chose me as its mascot. A position I had no choice but to accept.  If you asked me what my future holds, I would have grown very quiet. And sweaty. Like the world’s most awkward leaky faucet.

 

What happened in those 6 years to cause me to forget that I was a giant? I no longer jumped out of my bed ready to tackle the day. I would wake up and just spend an hour getting out of bed. I spent far too much time thinking about what everyone else was thinking about. I lost my voice. I started wearing sunglasses and forgot how bright the sun is. 

 

I used to think that every molecule of every breath of air was so magical because it all came from an explosion billions of years ago, billions of light years away. I used to sit through science class with my eyes and mouth agape. I used to chat up anyone who would listen about how amazing jellyfish are. 

 

But one day, I woke up and lost sight of the wonder. I didn’t remember why I was so amazed by the things that I would act like I no longer cared about. My daydreaming would often find its way to the future. The only light to be found coming from a desk lamp, I would be hunched over a computer and typing and typing. My hair long gone, my beard starting to gray, and my back always sore. The empty wine glass next to me suggesting that I needed a refill, but I kept typing. 

 

This day dream became a routine that became a reality that became a routine. I don’t know when it stopped, exactly; however, I do remember what it felt like to feel like a giant. I never feared telling people the crazy things that popped into my head - as far as I was concerned they should want to listen to me when I’m speaking.  Did you know that eagles mate by interlocking talons and dive-bombing towards the ground? If they don’t successfully mate before reaching the ground, they accept their fate and die embracing each other. 

 

I want to say what I want to say without waiting for approval. I want to remember that, while I may have the social skills of a blind hamster, I’m so much larger than one. I’ll take off my shades once in a while so I can remember what it’s like to be 6 again and in wonder of the brightness of the sun. There’s a giant hiding behind everyone’s eyes. Feed it, nourish it; find a way to let it out. It can’t come out if you’re always wearing a mask. 