  “It’s the red one, Mother. It’s always been red,” Calvin said to the screen while scrolling through real estate listings online. “You always did love to read, my dear boy,” she responded. “No, I mean the color red. I’m not talking about books right now, Mom!” Calvin snapped back. “Are you even paying attention?” Calvin’s brooding face turned from his computer monitor to glare at the TranScribe on the table. Reminded that he was merely talking to a computer program, his anger quickly faded. “Sometimes I forget you aren’t really there. I guess it’s time for a service call,” he stated plainly. “Why don’t you go outside, Calvin? It might be good for you to get some sunlight” his mother nagged. 
“It’s not a good day for going outside, Mother.”
“Sure, it is. It’s a beautiful day, Calvin.”
Calvin peered through the window next to him at the gray, overcast sky and felt a little bit smaller and a little more anxious. “It really isn’t. It really isn’t, Mom.” 
 
    He rolled his chair out from under the desk, stood straight up, and stretched his arms out while arching his back. Even without trying, Calvin could almost touch the ceiling of his modest-sized house. His lanky arms and pencil-stick legs would make him quite formidable to meet if not for his impossibly scrawny figure, pale skin, and body odor. He let out a half-yawn, half-groan as he completed the stretch and then sat back down and leaned back in the chair. “Tell me why you are so fascinated with the red house, Calvin,” his mom requested. “Ah, so you were listening! Why you gotta act like you aren’t listening just to rile me up, Mom?” he responded with a mischievous smirk. 
“I’ll answer your question only after you answer mine.”
“Really? Look, it’s kinda hard to explain.”
“I only ask that you try. Make an attempt for your Mother.”
“I guess it’s because my house is blue and it’s here. That house is red and it’s far away, over the mountains. More than anything else, I want to go somewhere else. I want to get out of this state.”
“That didn’t seem that hard to explain, Calvin.”
“It wasn’t so much hard to explain as it was hard to admit. All of my friends and family are here. I don’t know how they would react if I crossed the mountains and left them behind.”As Calvin finished that sentence, his focus started zoning back in on the red house on his screen. His mesmerization was interrupted with a startle when his mother finally answered his question.
“Because I’m your mother. It’s my job to rile you up and get your blood flowing when you’ve been sitting around all day.” 
“Come on, Mom!”
Calvin then stood up from his chair again. “I need to take a shower,” he proclaimed. He spoke the words with valor, as if he were giving a very important order to a trusted commander. 
 
    Calvin turned and started walking to the other side of the house to start the shower. As he did, the sun finally convinced the clouds outside his window to clear out enough that it could dive-bomb Calvin’s dining room. The light reflected off the TranScribe right as Calvin was passing by the table. As the light caught his eye, Calvin paused his stroll and turned towards the table to investigate. The TranScribe’s blinking power button quickly caught his attention. “Whoops,” he said laughing, “I almost left this on. No need to waste battery life while I’m in the shower.” Calvin methodically lifted up the TranScribe, careful not to scuff the dining room table. The table was made of solid birch with a dark cherry stain that gave the wood a beautiful, marbled auburn coloring. It wasn’t the best table ever built, but it was the table he inherited from his mother - no matter the flaws, it was his. The TranScribe, being no larger than his hand, is always heavier than he expects it to be. “I don’t think your diet is working,” he jeered into the speaker. “You never get any lighter!” he said and embellished with a hearty, genuine chuckle. “You never miss an opportunity for a quick laugh,” she responded. “Love you. Bye,” Calvin said as he switched the power off. Carefully setting the TranScribe back down on one of the cloth table mats he got from a thrift store for two bucks, Calvin paused to admire the mats for a moment. They were jet black with silver embroidery along the borders. In the center of each mat was a decal of an animal that looked like it had been ironed on after the original owner purchased them. He usually sat at the seat with the white owl on the mat. “I’m not quite ready for winter,” he confessed to the owl, “but I do love the snow.” The mat had white specks that looked just like snowfall on a pitch black, moonless night. He stayed to admire the backdrop of snow on the owl mat a little while longer before jumping in the shower. 
 
    Calvin walked into the bathroom and immediately started the water to get it hot. He then began to undress and carefully folded his clothes and laid them on the counter by the sink. He stood naked in front of the sink while he waited for steam to escape from the shower, indicating it was ready. While he waited by the sink, he studied his own face in the mirror. Calvin glanced at his toothbrush a few times, but never picked it up. Instead, he just continued counting the freckles on his face and waited for the steam. He got so carried away doing nothing that he didn’t notice the steam until it started depositing fog onto the mirror. He then walked over to the shower curtain and folded his towel that he hangs to dry on the shower rod in half to minimize splash damage while in the shower. Calvin peeled back the shower curtain and carefully stepped inside. Ignoring the shampoo bottle and bar of soap, Calvin simply stood beneath the shower head and allowed the water to massage his scalp while he daydreamed about the red house. His head was tilted down at such an angle that most of the water splashed off of him and rinsed off the clear inner shower curtain or added more mineral deposits to the shower walls. What little water didn’t splash off just ran down his back and into the drain. “I just need to ditch this blue house and move out to the red one. My friends and family will understand that I just want to be happy,” he preached to the shower drain that seemed quite disturbed at the color of water being delivered to it. “If they truly love me, then they will want me to do what I feel I need to do to be happy. Or, at least, what I think will keep me from being unhappy - I would settle for contentedness. And it would be selfish of them to want me to stay knowing that I am miserable here in this stupid, blue house, just so that I am closer to them.” When Calvin finished his shower sermon, he dismissed the congregation by slowly turning off the water. Reaching for the towel hanging on the shower rod, he noticed the smell of mildew coming off of it. “I guess I need to throw my towel in the next laundry cycle,” he said to the walls. When he finished drying off, Calvin donned the clothes he had carefully folded and placed on the counter near the sink. Calvin came back out to the open area and sat back down at his computer desk with a thud, causing the chair to squeal as the frame compressed too quickly. He still had the webpage with the red house on it pulled up. Glancing at the clock after what seemed to Calvin to have only been a few minutes revealed that it was actually getting late, but he wasn’t ready to stop fantasizing about the red house. After some hesitation, he finally declared it time to go and shut down the computer.”It’s almost 9:30. I need to try to catch the train,” he begrudgingly admitted to the red house on the screen. He grabbed his keys from the counter and a gray hoodie off the coat rack. He slipped the hoodie over his head as he walked back towards the dining room table. He plugged the ear buds he had in his pocket into the TranScribe, shoved it into the front pocket of his hoodie, and left.  
 
    As he was locking the front door, a cold breeze forced the hairs on the back of his neck to perk up as his skin tightened in protest. He threw up his hood and started his walk to the train station. He popped in his earbuds and booted up the TranScribe. “It’s already cooling off, Mother. Winter isn’t a patient lover.” He walked through the yard to the street at a steady, but cautious pace. The neighborhood was poorly maintained and so his street was dimly lit for lack of working street lamps. Calvin used to never go for walks at night because of the poor lighting and his unfamiliarity with the neighborhood, but he’s been making exceptions to visit the train station. “Nor a gentle one. It’s supposed to get cold in the winter,” his mother responded with a teasing tone.
“I know that.”
“I know you know. And I know you probably don’t think you’re ready for the winter, either, but just focus on the parts you do like about it - like the snow. Oh, you used to have such fun playing in the snow when you were little! Do you remember building a snowman and having snowball fights?” 
Calvin could almost hear the smile in her voice as she reminisced about his childhood with him.  “Yeah,” he answered back, “those were some great memories.”
“Don’t you mean are great memories, Calvin?
“Uh, yeah. That’s what I meant.”
Now that most of the clouds had parted, it really was a beautiful night. Calvin could see plenty of stars in the sky and pretend to make out a few constellations. “Hey, I think that’s Venus,” he said confidently, pretending to know which ball of light in the sky is a nearby planet. “That’s wonderful, dear;” his mother replied, pretending to find that fascinating.
 
    Calvin continued down his street to the connecting street called Acuerdo that lead out of his subdivision. He caught wind of a faint hoot from an owl and mirrored back.
“Who,” he called, “who.”
“Uh, Calvin? Did you turn into an owl?”
“Oh!” Calvin laughed at himself as he responded to his mother’s inquiry of her son’s anatomy. “For the moment, I forgot you could hear me. I thought I heard an owl. I was trying to say ‘hello!’”
“You’re quite a rare specimen, aren’t you?” She said whimsically.
“Yes, ma’am! There’s only one of me.”
They both laughed together at the silliness of the situation. Calvin had now made it to Main Street, which leads directly to the station. Being the main road of the town, this street had all the street lamps working most of the time. “Alright, just go south from here,” he said to himself as turned left and quickened his pace. “What would it be like to actually be an owl, I wonder? Do owls feel stress even with their much simpler minds?” Calvin and his mother bantered about the life of an owl the entire rest of the time he walked to the station. “But you would have to eat squirrels if you were an owl,” his mom would argue.
“And I would find them delicious and nutritious if I were an owl.”  The station coming in to view, Calvin picks up the pace again.
“Calvin,” his mother’s tone taking a more serious note now, “don’t forget that you are unique, okay?”
“But, mom, everyone is unique.”
“Yes they are, Calvin. Including you”
“So if everyone is unique, then no one is. I can’t pretend that individuality is worthy of praise when it’s so rampant. It’s not a special quality - it’s a prerequisite.”
“You’re way over-thinking this, Calvin. I just meant to say that you are the only you there will ever be. Celebrate you.”
“I have to go, Mom. I’m at the station now. You know how I don’t like talking while I’m at the station.”
“I wish you wouldn’t go”
“Bye, Mom.”
 
    He turned off the TranScribe and removed his ear buds as he approached the ticket booth. The train station was originally a theater, so the ticket booth looks exactly like a theater ticket booth. It even has the big, white, panoramic sign above it. No one bothers to put any letters on it anymore, though, and maintenance for a retired sign isn’t really in the budget for a train station of a small town, so it has started to show its age. The horizontal metal bars that would hold the letters are rusted and corroding, the light bulbs are all gone, and the backdrop of the sign is taking on a new regime of color that most would call “antiqued white with a splash of rust shavings.” Calvin finds it inviting all the same and stares at it even as he approaches the ticket booth. “How can I help you tonight?” asked the man at the booth with 3 inches of glass between him and Calvin and what appeared to be a space-heater plugged in on the counter behind him. Calvin finally broke his trance with the forgotten sign and leaned in to speak directly into the the tiny holes in the glass so he wouldn’t have to shout. The ticket man was much older than Calvin and heavier-set. His thick brown hair was well-kempt and cut above his ears. He was dressed in a manner that struck Calvin as too formal for a train station employee: white button down shirt underneath a faded, red sweater vest, gray slacks, and a gray tie tucked behind the vest. The tie was a full-Windsor knot and had thin, diagonal, red stripes on it. “Yes, I would like to get a ticket for the train, but I’m not sure which one it is.”
“Well, son, where do you want to go?”
Calvin turned around and moved to the side so the man could see where he was pointing. “I want to go past the mountains,” he said, leaning back towards the glass again. The pleasant mood dripped from the ticket man’s face as he looked Calvin square in the eye and said “I don’t think I can help with that. As proprietor of this station, I can only assist you with purchasing tickets for passage on trains that follow tracks we have already built. Perhaps, you can board a train to a neighboring city and they will have passage over the mountains.” Calvin, realizing that this man wouldn’t help him, slinked down in defeat. “It doesn’t work like that. I’ll just wait here,” he pointed to the empty bench in the boarding zone, “and buy a ticket when I see the train I want to board pulling into the station.” The ticket man just shrugged his shoulders as Calvin walked off to go sit on the bench.
 
    In the time it took him to walk to the train station, the temperature had dropped another 5 degrees. Now stationary and sitting on a metal bench, Calvin really started to feel the cold creeping in through the loose sides of his hood. “I really should have planned better for the weather,” he said to himself as he tried to pull his hood tighter around his face. Just as he started to feel the beginnings of a shiver forming in his spine, a woman came to sit next to him. She was wearing a blue sweater over a long-sleeved blouse of solid white, her dark, brown hair in a tight bun at the back of her head had a golden, metal pick holding it together. She smelled like someone had dumped a dozen roses on her after which a fairie sneezed on her - it was mostly pleasant, but way too intense of a smell. “That looks like the ice pick King Midas would have used,” Calvin said under his breath. “Pardon?” the woman asked him. Not meaning to say that aloud, Calvin nervously responded back. “Oh, um, I asked how you are doing. Sorry, I tend to mumble.”
“Oh, hah! That’s okay, sweetie. I’m doing swell, if but a little chilly. I don’t think anyone was expecting it to cool off this much already, you know?” the woman said with a grin. Because she was smiling, Calvin assumed she didn’t actually hear what he said the first time. His nerves faded.
“Yeah, winter is showing its face more quickly than anticipated. I’m Calvin.”
“Nice to meet you, Calvin. I’m Eleanor.”
“Nice to meet you, Eleanor.” After a few seconds of awkward silence, Calvin dove right in. “You kinda remind me of a teacher I had back in grade school. She always wore her hair in a bun with a metal pick in it like yours. Her picks would have silly animals or cartoon ornaments on them, though.” “Well, then,” Eleanor responded “she sounds like quite an awesome teacher if you remember that much detail from so long ago.”
“I always wondered if she had those cartoon picks because she worked with children or if she liked them regardless and would have worn them even if she didn’t.”
 
. . .
 
    “Class,” the young teacher directed her pupils’ attention to the blackboard with her yardstick as she started her lesson, “today we will be learning about adverbs.” A solid yellow blouse was covered with a thin, wool sweater. Her navy blue sweater was woven together loosely enough that it didn’t add so much layering and heat as it did just accentuate the style the teacher was attempting to pull off. As she turned her head to read the words she had prepared for the lesson, Calvin caught a glimpse of today’s bun ornament. “Nice!” he thought to himself, excitedly. “The cartoon giraffe is my favorite one. That’s a good omen for sure! I’m definitely going to ace the spelling test today. I especially like how the feet poke out of the bottom, but the head pokes out the top still because giraffe necks are so long! Maybe I’ll even get recess today!”
“Quickly. Strangely. Loudly. What do these words all have in common, class?” she quizzed her students. “I know, Ms. Tucker! They’re all adverbs!” The class erupted with laughter for a few moments until the students saw Ms. Tucker giving Calvin her patented stare down of disappointment: one leg slightly forward towards her victim, enough weight shifted to that leg so that she has to bend her knee ever so slightly, one hand on her waist above the bent leg, the other left limp at her side, and head tilted towards the accused at a twelve degree angle. Anyone can do that much. The part she patented was the way she could make her eyes just drill into your soul, rip it out of your body, and shame it in front of all of your friends. She was so good at it that she had kids trying to sell their souls to a devil just so she couldn’t have her way with them.
    “Calvin, I’ve already taken your recess privileges for the next 3 days. Do you really hate playing so much that you still want to be a disruption?” The look of pride on Calvin’s face, the ear-to-ear smile, and the glow of his eyes all evacuated when he looked up and witnessed Ms. Tucker’s gaze surveying his face to find the soul extraction point. “Well?” she hammered on, still searching. Calvin stared down at his desk and tried to fish-hook his voice from the dregs of his stomach so he could answer. “W-well, Ms. Tucker, you said we were learning about adverbs today, and, well, um, you didn’t actually write the word ‘adverbs’ on the board. So, I thought that was, um, maybe the right answer?” Even the class of 8 and 9 year old children knew that that was bullshit. Somehow, the already silent room got even quieter. Calvin could hear his heart beating inside his chest cavity; he could make out the noise his saliva made as it traveled down his esophagus; he could take in the sound of the 52 eyelids as they crashed together in strange synchronization as his entire class and teacher gawked dryly at him and blinked way too much. Calvin even heard the entire class stop breathing as every single one of them got nervous as Ms. Tucker’s left eye started twitching.
 
. . .
 
    “Are you alright there, Calvin?” Eleanor asked with concern. “Huh? Oh, yeah. I’m fine. I was just trying to remember if I locked the door when I left,” Calvin answered. Hearing the discomfort in his voice, she offered him assurance that he probably did lock it. “Thanks. I just get worried if I can’t remember locking the front door.”
“Oh, me too. Absolutely. But don’t think on it too hard, sweetie. Do you have your key?”
“Yes, I have it right here.” Calvin cupped the key from over his pocket as he spoke.
“See? If you have your key, then you must have locked the door.
Calvin reached into his pocket and produced his house key. It was set on an orange and white striped metal ring. He stared at it for a few choice seconds. 
“Well, that’s an interesting key ring. I usually only see ordinary, silver ones. Where did you get that?”
“I’m sorry, I need to go.”
 
    Calvin shoved both of his hands into the front pocket of his hoodie as he rose from the cold, sad bench. With a much quicker pace than he had walked to the station, he headed home. The walk back home is much less exciting for Calvin than the walk to the station is. He leaves the house with the intention of never returning to it. Sure, he locks the door, but that’s mostly from habit. Also, it would really suck if he did return home and all his stuff was gone. As he turned off of Main into his subdivision, he slowed his pace a bit to listen for the owl. When he got to the end of Acuerdo, he picked the pace back up and turned onto his street. “Stood up by an owl? What a hoot!” he forced the joke out of his mouth to ease his nerves. He was coming back through the street with almost no street lamps. This is always the hardest part. Calvin clenched his fists and focused on walking through the front door of his house. Walking through his yard to his door, the dew from the grass made his shoes and the bottoms of his jeans wet. Calvin unlocked his front door while he wiped his feet on his door mat. He opened the door quickly, put his hoodie back on the coat rack, and headed for the toilet. He failed to close the shower curtain after his shower earlier, so he closed it now. The curtain has a brown, earthy tone with a bright green, plump, caterpillar in the center. With the shower now safe from splash-back, Calvin dropped to his knees in front of the toilet. He lifted up the seat and cradled the back of the bowl with crossed arms. As the vomit poured out of him, his head dropped onto his arms in defeat. “You were right, Mother,” he gasped out between heaves, “I shouldn’t have gone to the train station.” 
 
    After the last heaves were through, Calvin passed out on the floor in front of the toilet with his legs bent and his knees tucked under his chin. It might have even been almost comfortable if he hadn’t shoved himself up against the bathtub, contorting his neck up at a right angle, and forcing his head to rest on the curtain just high enough for the caterpillar to rest on.  When the sun came up, it poked through the window in the bathroom and cast a silhouette of the curtain caterpillar on the ajar bathroom door, head facing onward.