I did a thing today.

 

I sent my boss an email detailing my concerns with a certain employee. I wasn’t looking for a short cut. I didn’t just want to get rid of her and never have to think about her again. I just wanted, needed,  to make sure he was aware that there were issues. 

 

I even tried to put the blame on myself - I obviously wasn’t managing her properly if she wasn’t doing her job right; however, I’m still not sure if I should have even said anything. I just didn’t want things to blow up in our faces. If we lose all of our accounts to small errors, there will be no employees to feel bad about. And I’m tired of putting out fires. I wasn’t hired to be a fireman. 

 

To be perfectly honest, I don’t think this should even be my job. I’m the IT & Logistics/Client Manager for the lab. Processing should fall under the Lab Manager. But Dr. Mike doesn’t have time to deal with insubordinate employees, and I can’t just let this empire I helped build crumble like a modern day Rome. So I knowingly give myself more stress because I know I can handle it. 

 

I’ve just never had an employee this difficult to work with. And my attempts to deter the behaviors weren’t effective. I can’t just write more SOPs at this point; I can’t just introduce new policies for specimen custody; I can’t just hope it fixes itself. I had to do something. 

 

I still don’t understand this uncomfortable feeling in my chest. Is that my conscience telling me I acted against it? Or is it just anxiety from the big ass can of worms I just ripped open and splattered all over the garden? 

 

My timing couldn’t have been better - I have my “post-90-day meeting”  with my supervisor tomorrow. Yeah, it must be anxiety. I’m worried I shot myself in the foot and now I’m not getting the raise I’m expecting.

 

That’s okay. I can take one for the team so the boat stays above water. 

 

That’s okay. I can hunker down and focus on school (September 1st!) and find a new boat if I need to.

 

That’s okay.

 

Let’s make a toast:

 

“Le sigh”