I really like the Halloween atmosphere and "spooky" scenery, yet don't care for the movies that are just scary to be scary and have no real plot. I don't know why, but I'm sure there is an explanation for it (maybe I just like the weather and I'm excited that Turkey Day is soon-ish if Halloween is soon). That being said, I can totally enjoy a holiday about vampires and ghosts and witches eating children and still fervently oppose the ideology that ghosts are real. In fact, I abhor the very premise that supernatural phenomena occur that cannot possibly be explained.
I watched a video on YouTube today about a kinesthetic sense malfunction from brain injury causing people to feel like they were, as they say, "not alone." [If you want to go watch it search for Spooky Science & BigThink.] What that means isn't important. The point is, we have scientifically proven what is actually happening in this scenario in which people were previously convinced they were being visited by a ghost.
Someone commented on the video with something along the lines of [paraphrasing] "This doesn't explain how normal people can walk into a house and feel like they are not alone."
To which I responded with [TL;DR]: People claim to find ghosts because confirmation bias exists. (I'll post the full comment as a, uh, comment to this post)
I mean, I enjoy wearing nothing but a sheet in public as much as the next guy, but come on guys - I'm never going to be bitten by a bat, turning into a vampire, after which I'm killed in a car accident (logging truck) only to be doomed to roam the earth as the ghost of a bat/vampire that hides in abandoned buildings because that's the only thing I can think to do with my eternity as a spirit/ghost/bat/vampire/magician-on-the-weekends (I do parties, call me!).
If something weird happens that you can't easily explain, please don't take the easy way out and claim it was supernatural. Its okay to say "I don't know how the door opened" if you didn't feel a breeze without following it with "it must haven been a ghost."
All of the knowledge ever created by man was unknown at one point (leaving out obvious primal instincts). People had to start asking questions and exploring instead of calling things supernatural and not attempting to understand it further. So why have we developed a culture of the least curious people to ever walk on this planet? I'll admit that a lot of knowledge stemmed from early man trying to get better at surviving and reproducing, but even after we got pretty good at that people were very curious to learn about the world they live in. Today, it seems more people are resigning their post as a student of the Universe. All over the Country (and the entire world, probably) fewer and fewer young people are getting into the Sciences.  When you were a kid, did you ask yourself the "does everyone perceive the color blue the same way as I do" question? A lot of people didn't think that question was answerable. Plenty of people told me there is no way to know. I argued that light has properties, so I'm sure there is a way to test it. We think we know the answer to that now. (The wavelength of the light determines it's color. Assuming everyone's eyes perceive 475 nm wavelengths of lights as blue, which is extremely likely considering we all have the same eyes, then my blue is the same as your blue.) "But, why is the sky blue, Daddy?" "God painted it blue, son, finish your Popsicle." That boy grew up and decided that wasn't a real answer. He actually tried to answer the question instead of just assuming he couldn't. We now know the answer to that one, too! I invite you to Google that one if you don't know.
Stop binding your hands together by proclaiming "its unexplainable!" when presented with something you can't immediately explain or understand. There's no shame in admitting ignorance. Ignorance provides a chance to learn, a chance to grow. Some people may read this and think it doesn't matter because they aren't a scientist or they don't care. This applies to much more than just learning about our Universe. Having a mindset that eschews explanations for things they don't understand trains your brain that information gathering isn't vital to survival. Once you tell your brain that it doesn't need to learn anymore to keep itself alive, its over. An uneducated mass controlled by a corrupt few is what led to the Dark Ages. I'm not saying we are headed for another Dark Ages, but we are definitely moving towards a culture of illiterate (or barely literate) people with an opposition to learning. I've met too many people who can neither speak English, nor know any other language. And they don't care. They aren't ashamed of themselves for being stupid the way people with low self-esteem about their appearance are ashamed to be in photographs. Nope, they were ashamed of me for giving a shit about intelligence and learning. They were ashamed that I care more about gravitational waves and their impact on black hole theories than the last time I went on a date.
This is getting long. Last point:
If you know me, then you know that I correct people a lot. And you probably think I'm pedantic or arrogant. If you know me well, then you know that I correct people because I want information exchanges to be accurate. Most people don't see the value in it, but communicating accurately is extremely correlated to communicating effectively. If I have to spend time "de-coding" your words, then you didn't do a good job communicating it to me. I'm not even going to touch the fact that there are so many words with similar meanings that choosing your words carefully to not allow incorrect interpretations is even more important. Most things can be communicated very precisely without the possibility if being interpreted in a way that isn't consistent with your intended message. Most things aren't communicated very precisely and get interpreted in a way that is consistent with how she feels at the time (fellas, amirite?). This is why I correct people.
Halloween is basically New Year's Day for superstitious people (if it isn't, I'm starting this). If you identify as a superstitious person (no, I did not just assume your spirituality) who tends to write things off as supernatural or unexplainable, I'd like you to make a resolution on Halloween this year: from now on, when you say "I don't know" you follow it with "but I'm sure there's a logical explanation we just haven't found yet." (and then you follow that up with "it probably wasn't a ghost")
Happy Halloween, everyone. May we always acknowledge that we don't know everything and that vampires are fiction (and even if they weren't fiction, they sure as shit wouldn't sparkle).