Stop what you’re doing right now and take a breath. think back to the last time you did something for someone else. why did you do it? did you do it out of love? out of obligation? it seems like too many people are doing too many things because of external reasons - they may not want to do it, but someone they respect, admire, or wish to bond with is doing it or asking them to do it.

 

Doing something for someone else can be selfless, but sometimes it’s because the other person is selfish. you shouldn’t do something just because you think it is expected of you or because you want someone else to like you. there always has to be a line. humans are only so elastic - we can’t just keep stretching forever and bending over backwards all the time.

 

Things we do for other people should be because, ultimately, we want to do those things. it really loses its allure when it was forced. i don’t think people ask themselves permission often enough before going with the flow or taking one for the team, as it were.

 

You have your own mind, your own volition. cherish that. make it a point to ask yourself what you want to do. first and foremost, your actions should be motivated by selfishness. self care is important. i’m naturally a helper, too. i know how hard it is to not do the thing if you are capable of it - even if it really isn't all that convenient for you. 

 

Don’t get me wrong, i don’t think everyone should only act out of selfishness and only do things they want to do. it just needs to come from a place of love or caring. obligated charity is no charity at all. peer pressure driven action do no a saint make. 

 

Want another perspective? just remember your own values anytime someone asks something of you. and i don’t mean “i value helping people” as your values. i’m talking about your self-values. what it is that you need? what is it that you have to give the world? does this intersect in there somewhere or are you wandering off the map again?

 

To those of you who can’t help but lend a hand: keep lending. to those of you who aren’t sure how to fit in without being the go-to “nice guy” that everyone always seems to ask favors of: practice saying no. you might be surprised how the people around you react. and to any one and every one who reads this:

 

Do what makes you happy.