“And that’s why I told her to be careful to not overfeed Mr. Wiggles because of his- Jared!” she perked up as she cut herself off at the sight of him. A tall man with dark hair had approached the table where Stacey and her friends were enjoying mimosas and girl chat. Stacey's beaming smile reflected the bright sun right into Jared's eyes. As if he didn't notice, he pulled his shades up to the top of his head and walked over to the table so that he was standing next to Stacey. 

 

"Hey, hun. What a nice surprise, but what are you doing here? Your flight leaves in 2 hours!" Still smiling at the sight of him, but concerned that he may miss his flight, she gave him a quick jab on his shoulder.

 

"I know, but I had to talk to you before I left. I was planning this for after my trip, but I couldn't wait any longer." Jared forced out shakily. Stacey's friends gave each other an excited look of anticipation.

 

"Stacey, you're my best friend." Jared's voice was now back to the usual calm-and-collected cadence with no sign of nerves, but without sounding too rehearsed. "I don't ever want you to stop being my best friend, but I think we should take our relationship to the next step." Stacey is wiggling in her chair now, ready to jump out of it at a moment's notice. "I think we should make a stronger commitment to each other." As he said this, Jared knelt down on his knee and reached inside his pocket for a small, black box. Stacey can barely contain herself. Her friends are almost as excited as she is and having to cover their mouths so they don't scream and ruin the moment.

 

"Let's be more than best friends, Stacey. Let's be best friends with benefits." Jared then opened the box to reveal a heart-shaped locket that was split down the middle. Stacey's face sunk into her purse. Her left eye started twitching as she looked up at Jared. "What? Is this some really mean way of breaking up with me?" Almost in tears now, Stacey crossed her arms and started to turn away from her friends' view. "What?" Jared responded, "What makes you say- let me explain."

 

"Stacey, I love you. I want to experience all of the benefits of loving you.I want to enjoy the benefit of seeing your face every morning when I wake up." Stacey started to turn back towards him now and relax her posture. "I want the benefit of coming home from work to your beautiful smile to greet me at the door. I want us to share the benefit of building a life together under the same roof, but I want us to make the commitment together." Jared started to pull the locket out of the box and put it around Stacey's neck. 

 

"The benefits aren't all mine, love. I want you to receive all the benefits of loving me. As the other party in the best friends with benefits relationship, you'll have access to your own personal foot massager. There will always be plenty of wine in the kitchen for when you have a hard day at work. Or just whenever - I won't judge." Stacey let out a short chuckle and started to smile again. Jared placed his hands in hers. "We can have as many puppies as you want. And you will always have a shoulder to cry on, right after I beat up whoever made you cry."

 

Stacey turned all the way towards Jared, still only smiling with her eyes. "I saved what I think will be your favorite benefit for last." Jared reached into the black box and removed the felt padding to reveal a gleaming silver ring. Stacey and her friends were no longer breathing. "Planning our wedding." Jared said as he offered her the ring. "Yes! Yes!" Stacey shouted as she struggled to remain seated. "Yes, Jared. I want to be your best friend with benefits. I want all the benefits. And all the puppies." Stacey and her friends now searching for tissues, Jared put the ring on her finger and placed the empty box on the table.

 

"I am so happy you said yes, Stacey. I already canceled my trip, so that would have been super awkward if you didn't!" Stacey's glanced at her friends and quipped "This is the guy I said yes to, jealous?" 