I think I’ve learned that the most attractive quality someone can have is kindness. Think about it for a second. What is the most profound adjective everyone uses when describing someone as a “good person?” He’s caring? She’s so honest? They are kind. Every one ends on that one. It’s not because they thought of it last. There is just no longer anything important left to say. They are kind. End of story. Put a ring on it, etc.

 

And isn’t that just the bee’s knees? Who doesn’t love the sight of a kind person? Have you ever heard someone say “he’s so kind” with a negative tone as someone walks into a room? If you have, cut all ties with that person immediately. Kindness is so grand. 

 

I used to say that I was most attracted to a woman’s eyes. I would always defend this fact with something like “If you’ve never glimpsed a beautiful woman smiling with her eyes, then you haven’t truly seen beauty.” A lot of people would counter that, evolutionarily speaking, the most attractive qualities should always be physical because (according to our DNA and hormones) that’s the best indicator that a potential mate will produce offspring with a high chance of survival. But I think we’ve evolved passed that. We don’t need physical attributes to ensure survival anymore. We have amazing brains that have overcome physical handicaps. We have prosthetic limbs; we have really good weapons; we have really good shelters - we don’t need physical attributes to pass on to our offspring so they won’t be eaten by a predator. We are the predator.

 

And too often on our own species. There’s too much world to take in. We do have amazing brains, but part of that is lost when we indulge in the vastness of our collective cultures. Our brains can only do so much. We conceptualize a lot of the input our sensory organs provide us everyday, a necessary process to not be overwhelmed by stimuli. And I think at some point this breaks down. It doesn’t physically break down, but it stops working. Mental shortcuts are great for getting through daily tasks and blocking out stimuli that our brain deems irrelevant, but they fail when the paradigm we are born into is flawed. We can’t auto-pilot our way through our chauvinistic culture without recourse. We can’t never pause. We can’t continue on this path.

 

It’s mostly agreed upon by historians that Rome collapsed because a large majority of it’s people died of infectious diseases, but there is still some debate about what happened to the rest. Let’s not give them any more data to compare that with. It’s not that hard to not hate people for their beliefs. It’s not that hard to not hate people for their thoughts. It’s not that hard to not hate people for wanting a better life for their race/gender/class.

 

Just be kind. I promise it won’t kill you. It’s not as simple as I try to make it seem, but kindness comes in all forms. Do you see someone who having a hard time? Give them a hand. You’re boss will understand if you’re late because you stopped to help a stranger push their car to the gas station.  Do you know someone who always seems to go out of their way to screw people over for their own gain? Try to learn their story. Maybe they have a sickly mother and they absolutely cannot lose their job because her medical bills are outrageous.

 

Kindness isn’t just about the tangible things you can point to and show someone that you did. Kindness is grand; kindness is profound; kindness is agnostic.

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

If you think you’re worthless, be kind. Others will cherish you for it.

 

If you think you’re sad, remember the kindness that’s been given to you in the past. Hold onto that as you try to find the sun again.

 

If you think the world is too complicated to make sense of because there is so much negativity and discourse, be the kindness that repels the dark aura of our Individualistic culture and teaches everyone’s heart how to smile.

 

If you can’t stand out, stand up. Fight for the future you demand, not the one you were told about. 

 

Be vigilant; be filled with righteous indignation; be kind.

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

https://open.spotify.com/track/12C6ufD5zOWsQGHQY7aXRM?si=FFhszQJtRr-SyO8n4UXjfw