I was thinking about how divided our country is right now. We have over 300 million Americans, each with their own individual opinions about what is right. We have tax dollars that need to be spent. We have healthcare, welfare, public works, public office, public mandates, and even Russians to worry about! The country is very split, with no hope of a perfect solution. 

 

So why not see it through? Why not actually split the country? The Conservatives can have their half, and the Liberals can take what’s left. Some of you may be thinking to yourself that this is a terrible idea because you don’t want to have to move just because you identify as a Conservative and your house just got rezoned into the Liberal half. No need to worry - I’m not proposing a geographical split, but a logical one. 

 

All we need to do is split the government into two. No one has to move. Conservatives will pay taxes to their governing bodies and receive whichever benefits they pay for, and Liberals will pay taxes to their governing bodies so that can pay for all the people who need welfare assistance. Your neighbor could be buying your grandma’s milk and bread and you wouldn’t even have to pretend to support such a liberal usage of government. It’s gonna be great!

 

There are, of course, a few things that would need to be worked out in this neo-two-halves-of-a-whole-America. Would their still be a three branch government and one president? It would likely be best to have 3 smaller branches represent each half, with a Chairman of the State being the top elected official. Then, the office we currently refer to as POTUS would oversee both sides as more of a bookkeeper to make sure everything was in order (which translates to them not really doing anything). Much like the sitting Queen of England, but way less glamorous or posh.

 

In order to cement the difference in philosophy, the Liberal States of America would have a certain quota of bills to pass each year. Strict records would be kept of how each elected official voted on certain bills (though, I admit, I expect a unanimous vote each time). If a certain official votes no 3 times, they’re out.  The Conservative States of America would then need to make sure they never used any State funds to help the needy or the poor. Even suggesting it, no matter how dire it gets, would be political suicide. 

 

As far as policing the people, that should remain bipartisan. It would be awfully inconvenient if a police officer had to make sure they were arresting the right citizen. Could you imagine being a detective for the Conservative State and spending 5 years tracking down a serial killer only to find out after 3 months of battling the defense in the Supreme Court of the Conservative States of America that they faked their identity and actually belong to the Liberal State? Not good - let’s just avoid that altogether.

 

Commerce would also stay the same. I see no reason to impose tariff on goods being purchased by neighbors. Unless it’s that asshole Steve Daggot - I always charge him an extra quarter per bushel. I’ll never call him neighbor if he won’t apologize.

 

Once we divide our resources in such a way that we can please everyone all the time, there will no longer be such a divided feeling among our united states. We can achieve what our forefathers dreamed of in the 18th Century. Sure, we may not have flying cars or robots washing our dishes, but I seriously doubt anyone thought about those things in the 1700s. 

 

We would have something demonstrably better: we would have an end to the turmoil dividing our nation. It starts with dividing the nation into two very opposing halves. I think we can do this, y’all. I believe in a future where we divide into two parts to make a greater whole. 