I put a couple hundred miles or so on my dad’s Silverado this weekend. My brother+SIL met at my parent’s house to pickup the couch I bought to drop off in my garage for the movers to take to the new place. Then, we loaded up my washer and dryer to take to my brother’s house. After that, we drove back to my parent’s house to get our cars. I ended up taking the truck back to my house to load up a bunch of stuff to take back over to my parent’s house to donate to her resale shop in the morning. 

 

Driving back over there this morning, at the crack of dawn, reminded me of when I used to work for an erosion control company, probably six or seven years ago at this point. We would drive around in a dually Cummins diesel with a 24’ trailer hauling the Bobcat to different sites. I really hated that job. All we ever did was clean up the dirt that eroded off the new home sites and dump it back on to the lots. Or we would put a cover over the storm drain. Oh, sometimes we would put down that green mesh stuff to help keep the soil from blowing away. Yawn.

 

I did have some fun doing 360s in the Bobcat once, but then we got yelled at for that by the owner so we never did that again. Apparently, skid steers leave pretty thick black marks in the street if you spin them in place for long enough. It turns out the foreman at DR Horton wasn’t too fond of black tire marks in his brand new housing community. Who knew?

 

I was really unhappy then. I wasn’t even close to living up to my potential or the expectations I had set for myself. Menial labor? “This is not at all what I should be doing,” I would always tell myself. I wasn’t in the right car and I wasn’t going to the right places. 

 

 

 

Thinking about that lead me think about how much I really love the car I’m in now. Sure, the Silverado I’m driving right now has a few more features than my Camaro does (who needs an aux port?). Sure, I have stalled it a non-zero amount of times these past 4 years. Sure, I don’t always feel like down-shifting to accelerate up a hill - but I still make it to the top of that hill. Yeah, I don’t always shift perfectly - but I’ve never grinded the clutch.

 

You really should see her when she is waxed with the sun at 3 o’clock on a summer day. If the soul is real, then that’s how mine looks now. My situation has improved exponentially since those days. 

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

Today was the Mondayiest of Mondays, but, I kept focusing on how much happier I am with the Camaro. I’m very lucky to be where I am right now. If you asked me 15 years ago where I saw myself at 30 and then showed me, I would have been disappointed. If you asked me 5 years ago where I saw myself at 30 and then showed me, I would have kissed you. It’s funny how expectations change. It’s funny how much environment affects or creates context. 

 

I read about a doctor in Africa who was convinced that depression is a situational illness. He put this to the test and started asking his patients something along the lines of “Why are you depressed?” One of them answered “I lost my job and now I can’t provide for my family.” Rather than prescribe this man an antidepressant, he found him a job.

 

Another patient answered “I have a gimp leg and it’s hard to get around now.” He got this man a wheelchair.

 

A third patient answered “Everyone I have ever loved has died or left and I feel so alone.” He gave this patient the contact information for his niece or something because they had similar interests and thought they would make good friends. 

 

 

 

6 months later, none of his patients reported any symptoms of depression. 

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

https://open.spotify.com/track/5cbpoIu3YjoOwbBDGUEp3P?si=wSWtGd0xRtu1FRsgm18MVg