“Why must we tend to the flood gates this day, Father? We did the very same the day before.”

 

“Timothy, my son, we must tend to the flood gates this day, the next day, and the next day after. We must tend to the flood gates all days,” his father replied with a look of understanding. 

 

“But, Father. . .” Timothy began to speak with his eyes fixed upon the soft dirt before them. He let out a discontented sigh. “Keep your eyes up, son. You must not stare at the ground for too long or you will not know where you are going.” He jerked his head back up and finished the thought he was resisting. “Father, tending to the flood gates takes so much time of the day from us. There is little room for much else.” He looked at his father with defeat on his face. “I wish we could spend more time on other things.” 

 

“Timothy. . .” his father began to speak with compassion in his voice, his humbled tone cutting right through Timothy’s wall of questions, “if we don’t tend to the flood gates every day, then the water could break through. Do you understand that this is not something we want to happen?” 

 

“I understand, Father, but I wish to be more productive.” Timothy turned his gaze onwards towards the sky and started to squint as the sun kissed his face. “And it doesn’t seem fair that I have to spend so much time tending to the flood gates - I haven’t even seen this water we are holding back! How bad could it truly be to take a day off and enjoy the splendors of the village? I think I could be a great dancer if given the chance!” Timothy finished his queries and turned to find his father had stopped walking next to him and sat down on a smoothed rock. The thicket of trees cast a shadow over that side of the trail and so Timothy joined him. “Father?” Timothy prodded him. “Son,” when he finally spoke, Timothy could hear the pain in his voice, “I need to tell you a tale. I think you are of age to understand it now.” 

 

Timothy moved closer to his father and placed a hand in his. Timothy could fill the callouses on his father’s hand and it gave him pause. “Father,” Timothy began to console him as he realized he was staring at the ground, “it wasn’t your fault. There was nothing you could -.”

 

“This isn’t about your mother.” His father cut him off, gathering his strength again and raising his head back up to meet the tree-line. “I need to tell you about the great flood.”