As Timothy was finishing making the last few adjustments to the sails, he heard the familiar sound of dolphins pacing the boat. Splash. Splash, splash. “One in front, two following” he said to the rope he was tying off. A joyous smile crept across his face as he finished the last knot. With the sails readied for the journey, he walked briskly to the railing of the bow to greet his new travel companions. Splash. Splash, splash. Timothy stood on the bottom railing at the bow and called out to his new friends “You know what I love about sailing these waters?” he roared as he straightened his back and puffed out his chest. He was now leaning back with his ankles flexed to hold himself up by the railing. With his arms fully extended, he began to move them parallel to his shoulders as if to hug the sky and answered his own query to his new dolphin buddies. “The familiar smell of the salt in the air. And basking in the glory of the sun!” he cried out in tribulation. 

 

As if on cue, the sun came bursting out from behind the partial cloud cover just as Timothy finalized his pose. He let out the kind of joyous chuckle one does when greeting an old friend. “This,” Timothy declared, “this is what I’m talking about!” The trio of dolphins seemed to share his enthusiasm, as they all started calling out during their air time, matching the cadence of Timothy’s laughter. 

 

As the clouds started to reclaim the face of the sun, Timothy methodically lowered himself from the railing of the bow. Turning towards the starboard side where the dolphins were performing, Timothy called out “I have a long way to go, my friends. I’ll save you some fish.” After he waved his goodbye to the trio, he started towards the helm where his sleeping quarters were. “The weather forecast said clear skies through the morning,” he announced to the pillow of his make-shift bed. “I have plenty of time to kill while I sail due North.” He began removing his shoes at the foot of his bed. “I’ll grab a quick nap while I can.” 

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

Timothy awoke with a jolt. The boisterous boom of thunder that rattled his teeth as he lay in bed was too much for him to sleep through. “Shit!” Timothy jumped out of his bed, swearing at the sky the entire time he looked for his shoes. A lightning bolt lit up the sky in front of him. “One, two, thr-” Timothy was interrupted by another tremendous blast of sound. Still disoriented from being ripped from the stupor of sleep prematurely, he paused to regain his bearings. “Two and half,” he whispered. “That is not great.” 

 

Finally, remembering where he was and what he was doing, he ran to the radio and turned it on. The click of power and steady flow of static was the most beautiful sound he had ever heard. Timothy let out a chuckle of relief and bent down to kiss the radio. “I knew I could count on you, old friend” he said to the radio as he began adjusting the settings to call out to the nearby Coast Guard outpost. 

 

“Hotel-Lima-Papa-Sierra-Lima-Tango calling for Charlie-Golf-One-Tree-Niner.” He spoke into the radio with a forced calmness in his voice. “Hotel-Lima-Papa-Sierra-Lima-Tango calling for Charlie-Golf-One-Tree-Niner.” Timothy continued trying to contact the Coast Guard in twenty second intervals. Not knowing how long he had been asleep before the wake up call of the approaching storm removed him from his dreams, Timothy was starting to second guess himself. “Dammit,” he yelled at the storm clouds that seemed to be growing darker, larger, and more terrifying every time he blinked, “am I even in range?” 

 

“Let’s just switch to a different channel and see if I can find anyone who is close enough to assist” he said, ignoring the subtle panic forming in his throat. “Hotel-Lima-Papa-Sierra-Lima-Tango. If any one can hear me, please respond. I’m in need of assistance.” Another lightning bolt offering salutations streaked across the sky. “One, tw-” this bolt caused such a ruckus that the radio kicked out feedback as the sound wave screamed through the vessel. “I haven’t even traveled a quarter of a mile since the last bolt I counted,” Timothy said to himself. “Even if I retract the sails and anchor now,” the reality of what was coming finally hit him as he realized the storm was coming towards him. “I’m so screwed. This ship isn’t equipped to handle a storm like this.” 

 

“Hotel-Lima-Papa-Sierra-Lima-Tango!” Timothy, having trouble keeping his composure, is now shouting into the radio. The desperation in his voice is palpable and leaving spittle on the microphone of the radio. “Please, if anyone can hear me, I need immediate assistance! I’m captain Tim on the S.S. Scarlet. There’s a storm approaching that we can’t handle! Please, if anyone can hear this!” 

 

The scratch of static paused for the longest second of Timothy’s life. His heartbeat suspended for that moment so he could focus everything he had on the noise coming from the radio. “Sierra-Lima-Tango, this is Alpha-dash-Foxtrot-Romeo-November-Delta. I’ve received your transmission.” The voice on the radio was calm and concerned. It reminded Timothy of his late grandfather. He had one of those voices that you just wanted to listen to. “What can I do to assist?” The man on the radio finished his response and Timothy’s heart starting beating once more. “Alpha-dash-Foxtrot-Romeo-November-Delta, I’m in a 32’ cruiser heading into some pretty nasty stuff!” Timothy called out to who he hoped would be his savior. “Where are you located?” the man on the other side asked. “I’m about 2 miles South of the approaching storm. The storm appears to be heading south, I’ve been traveling North since I disembarked this morning,” Timothy responded with a bit more tranquility in his voice. It was calming him to know that there was someone out there who might be able to help him. 

 

“I think I’m about 3 miles South of you,” called out the radio. “I’ve been tracking the storm closely. I’m heading West and wanted to make sure I wouldn’t run into it. Is your vessel or sail red?” “No, it’s a white boat with white sails and mast. Why do you ask?” Timothy pondered back. “Huh,” the man said with a bit of disbelief, “I woulda thought with the name Scarlet it woulda been red somewhere.” “Ahh,” Timothy smirked as he spoke into the radio, “my mother used to tell me that the word ‘scarlet’ also represented love and passion. I named my vessel Scarlet because I want people to think of love and passion when they think of my ship.” The chatter of the ship helping to take his mind off of the impending doom of the storm, Timothy began to relax his posture and smile. “Listen, Tim, I think I can hel-” another thunderclap slammed against the S.S. Scarlet, completely drowning out the man on the radio. This time the roar of the thunder seemed to echo forever, over and over again in Timothy’s head. “Dammit! What did he say?” “Not helping!” Timothy screamed to the sky. “Alpha-dash-Foxtrot-Romeo-November-Delta, please repeat last transmission. This is Sierra-Lima-Tango, Captain Tim of the S. S. Scarlet.” Timothy pleaded with the radio several times, but never received another response. Eventually, upon releasing the microphone, a feedback loop shorted out the radio.

 

“Here we go,” Timothy muttered to himself as he lowered the sails and dropped the anchors. The lightning and thunder almost in perfect synchronization. The wind and rain starting their carols at Timothy’s doorstep. And the waves that once harmonized with the ambiance of the earth now accost Scarlet with such force and consistency that even the 3 anchors won’t hold for long. Timothy sat behind the helm, eyes glowing from the lightning show ahead, resigned himself to his fate, and spoke softly to Scarlet “It’s time to face the storm that comes.” 