I’ll stop when I’m done.

 

If you can’t pry this pen out of my cold, trembling hands, my voice will be heard.

 

I’ma let you finish, but Goose IPA is the greatest of all time.

 

With its bright citrus aromas and bold hop finish, Deep Ellum IPA needs to sit back down.

 

A new champion has been crowned.

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

A champion - what does it take to become  a champion?

 

I’ve often pondered this question. I’ve spent countless hours looking up at the sky and wondering how I get there. It’s just so far away. I’m stuck down here on ground zero, paying my bills, buying fuel for my car, eating my food, drinking my Goose IPA, and asking myself how I become the goose.

 

I don’t have an answer yet, but I’ve started to create a storyboard.  I don’t have an answer yet, but I think I’ve reverse-engineered a few of the ingredients. 

 

Ingredient 1: Failure.

 

The path of the champion isn’t a smooth curve - it’s a jagged line. As long as your slope is non-zero, you’re on the right track.

 

Ingredient 2: Introspection.

 

Find your bearings. Get a feel for where your head is. Keep it in the right space. Keep looking for the sun. Make damn sure you never lose sight of the finish line.

 

Ingredient 3:  Pickax

 

This is for climbing. I really shouldn’t need to explain this one.

 

Ingredient 4: Grit

 

The first 3 ingredients are either hard to come by, or hard to handle consistently. You’ll need this one the most.

 

Ingredient 5: Support

 

No one becomes a champion by themselves. Don’t forget your friends.

 

Ingredient 6: ? (Binding Agent)

 

This is the one I haven’t discovered yet. I haven’t figured out how to combine these together into a champion. I have some theories as to what the last ingredient may be. Common binding agents such as eggs, flour, or potatoes could be useful here; however, I have a feeling they wouldn’t do the trick with these ingredients. Passion, ambition, and willpower are my next candidates for a proper binding agent. I’ll need to experiment with these before I can make a determination. More research is needed. as they say.