“Hey, man! I found a new road I’ve never driven before,” Tony informed his best friend, James, with the excitement of an 8 year old opening presents. James looked up at him with the concern of a pessimist. Judging by the size of the bags resting bellow his sullen eyes, he seemed sleep deprived. His dark brown hair had been lazily styled today and his clothes were seemingly allergic to the iron. “That’s great, man,” he replied back with noticeably less excitement than Tony. Tony adjusted his watch before looking back to James. “I actually think I’ve seen or been on this road before. It was a long time ago, before I was driving myself. I like the curves and forestry around it. It makes for a great drive. I’m going to try going a little faster around the bends next time. I really want to find out the potential it has.”

 

“Just be careful, Tony. I don’t want you to go too fast and crash.” James’ tone morphed from not-so-enthused to concerned. “I like that shirt, by the way. It looks good on you.” Tony looked down at his Tommy Hilfiger button-down shirt that he’d worn every Tuesday for as long as he can remember. “He’s clearly changing the subject,” Tony thought to himself. “I know he’s seen this shirt a dozen times and never commented on it. I do look pretty good in it, though.” 

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

Tony turns towards James’ desk from his own desk 3 feet away to call out to him, “Yo, James.” 

 

“Sup?” James responded without looking up from his screen or pausing his typing.

 

“How’d the meeting go earlier? Do you need any help with that account?”

 

“Nah, I’m basically just doing busy work at this point. You need something?”

 

Tony paused for a moment to gather his thoughts, or perhaps his courage, before answering. “I want to talk about the road again. Hear me out before you dismiss it this time.” “Okay, Tony,” James finally looked up from his monitor and turned to face Tony with a blank stare on his face. Tony was already losing the fight against the giant grin he wanted to hide during his monologue about this new road he’d encountered. 

 

“Look, the road is called Prospect Road.” As Tony started on his explanation of Prospect, his eyes started lighting up and his posture relaxed. “Like I said before, I like the scenery and I really enjoyed my first drive on it.” Tony, paused to gauge James’ reaction before continuing on with the rest of his rehearsed speech. James’ facial expression hadn’t really changed much, but it did seem like he was paying attention, so Tony continued. “I know I don’t have a ton of experience with this and I haven’t really pushed myself to find out my potential on an open road like this before, but I don’t want you to worry about that. Even from my first adventure there, I can see a lot of potential here. You know that I’ve been thinking I wanted something more than just the city streets and freeways I drive on to get back and forth to work. I really want to pursue this - I want to go out there on the weekends and learn every curve.”

 

Realizing he was starting to speak much faster and had stopped hiding the smile on his face, Tony paused to wait for James to respond now that he had shown his hand. James took a deep breath before giving his reply:

 

“I’m happy that you found what could be what you were looking for and that you want to pursue that - of course I think you should pursue it. I only caution that you should take it slow because you haven’t learned that road yet. There might be potholes around sharp curves that you can’t see coming and I don’t want you to get hurt.”

 

Thanks, James,” Tony replied with appreciation, “I would expect nothing less from you than the ‘I’m happy for you, but be careful, bro’ speech.” Tony and James both turned back to their computers to finish what they were working on before that aside. Tony could hear James typing away, but Tony was having a lot more trouble re-focusing on his work. His mind kept drifting to thoughts about Prospect Road and he didn’t mind it. “I think it probably is a good idea to take it slow at first. It makes sense to find out what I’m getting into before revving up the RPMs.”

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

Tony arrived in the office a lot more cheery than he usually is this early in the morning. This was not lost on James, who immediately queried Tony about his suspicions. “Dude, why are you so-” James paused to collect his thoughts.  “How do I say this?” 

 

“You’re not your normal ‘I hate mornings’ self today. What’s up?” 

 

“I guess I’m just really looking forward to tomorrow. I’ve decided to leave work after lunch tomorrow to have my first test drive on Prospect Road and I’m very excited about it. It’s been two weeks or so since I first discovered this road. I’m really looking forward to this first drive!” “That’s great man!” Tony’s response was so profoundly full of glee and excitement that it was even contagious to Mr. Pessimist, James, who responded back with a pinch of excitement in his own voice as well. 

 

The next day, Tony quickly wrapped up his work, scarfed down some lunch, and ran out the door to his much anticipated first drive on Prospect Road. 

 

“Okay, Tony, just take it nice and slow. Don’t have unrealistic expectations. This road seems amazing on Google Maps, but it’s okay if the drive doesn’t go well. And don’t be nervous - just drive like you always do.”

 

Now that Tony’s mental preparation for the drive was out of the way, he was relaxed and ready to go. “Let’s try to have some fun today, but keep it in second gear for now,” he thought to himself as he eased off the clutch to start his first drive down Prospect. As he drove the windy path of Prospect, Tony was pleased to take in the scenery and just enjoy the drive for what it was. “Just take in the moment,” he coached himself, “keep an open mind and see how things go.” Because he had driven so slowly, it started to get dark before he’d explored the full length of the road and learned about all that Prospect Road has to offer. “Time to turn back,” he thought to himself, “but, wow. I definitely want to do that again.” 

 

Tony drove home with a grin wrapped from ear-to-ear the whole way home. When he arrived home, still bursting with excitement about Prospect and all it had to offer, he sent his mother a message to tell her how the drive went. “Hey, remember how you’ve been not-so-subtly hinting that you wanted me to find a new road to drive on? Well, I think I may have found it. This might just be a hormone high talking, but wow! This road is unlike any road I have ever experienced! I might have just gotten really lucky and found the right road on the first try!”

 

“I’m happy for you, but please be careful! There is no need to rush things, son. Love you ♥”

 

“Thanks, love you ♥” Tony replied back and then just sat there staring at his phone. He couldn’t stop smiling and his face was starting to get sore. Tony was not accustomed to smiling this much, and his face muscles were letting him know that they were strained. 

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

“Dude, it’s after 10:30!” James threw an unusually snarky comment at Tony as he walked into the office. “Yeah, I was on Google Maps until after two again last night,”  Tony mumbled back at James, still sounding half asleep. “That’s crazy, dude. You can’t keep doing that every night.” James now sounding like he was lecturing Tony. “I can’t help it,” Tony pleaded, “I want to learn everything about Prospect Road. I really see some potential here.” James rolled his eyes at him and turned back to his monitor. “It’s not like I haven’t done any work yet today. I did about an hour’s worth of work before I left the house.” Tony’s defense of his tardiness seemed to fall on deaf ears as James didn’t respond to him with anything more than a subtle shake of his head. 

 

Later that day, Tony strikes up a new conversation with James about Prospect Road.

 

“Hey, James. Come outside with me. There’s something I want to talk to you about.”

 

“Alright, man. Just let me finish this email and I’ll meet you downstairs.”

 

Tony locked his computer and walked downstairs and out the back door to where his car was parked and lit a cigarette. As promised, James joined him a few minutes later.

 

“I want to tell you something and see what you think about it. I’ve known this all along, but I didn’t want to bring it up until I was sure I wanted to pursue this,” Tony started off with a seriousness to his voice that James was not accustomed to when Tony was talking about Prospect Road. “Alright, man. Shoot,” James responded.

 

“So here’s the thing: Prospect Road is in the process of getting rezoned right now, okay.”

 

“Oh, wow. That’s definitely a detail, dude.”

 

“Yeah. Now, before you get the wrong idea, the rezoning process started long before I even had my first drive on Prospect. The reason I bring this up is because you have more experience with this sort of thing than I do and I was wondering what the social protocol is for this type of situation. Do I just ignore the fact that it’s a thing? Do I look into the progress of it? It is definitely something that effects me, but I’m not sure it’s appropriate for me to seek out information pertaining to it.”

 

“Well, you are absolutely right. It is none of your business. If information about it is offered to you, you shouldn’t ignore it or blow it off, but you shouldn’t be asking about it.” James looked at Tony with worry in his eyes. “What has he gotten himself into?” he thought to himself privately, but it came out in his eyes.

 

“I can tell that you’re worried,” Tony said, catching James completely off-guard. “Don’t be, man. Or do be, but just know that I understand what I’m getting into. I know that I need to be patient and not try to rush things.”

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

Tony came into the office a little more chipper than usual on Monday, even by recent standards and quickly started telling James about his awesome weekend. “Dude, I went out to Prospect Road this weekend and saw some rabbits running along the side of the road. I had never seen rabbits until this weekend. I’m telling you, dude, the more I learn about Prospect, the more I like it.” “That’s really awesome, man,” Jame replied. He tried to match Tony’s excitement as best he could on a Monday morning, but ultimately fell short. “I’ve decided that I am willing to relocate closer to Prospect Road so that I can spend more time there,” Tony quickly spat out while James was still trying to force his face to look excited about the rabbits. “I don’t want this to sound like I’m not happy for you,” James began with a serious tone. “But,” Tony quickly added for him. “But, that’s a really big decision. Make sure it is definitely what you want before you commit to that.”

 

“Yes, of course. I wouldn’t make a decision like this without giving it proper thought. I am, without a doubt, the most analytical person you know. Would you really expect me to make such a big decision willy-nilly?” Tony quipped back with a smirk on his face. “No, I wouldn’t,” James quickly added, “that’s why I wanted to make sure you hadn’t done it here. I have to make sure you aren’t getting caught up and are still making logical choices.” “Oh, and by the way,” Tony continued, “because of the rezoning situation, Prospect Road doesn’t really have any funding right now. I’ve decided to fund the road myself so it doesn’t crumble into dust before the rezoning situation gets resolved.” James paused, briefly, then replied “That’s your decision, man. I’m not going to tell you that you should or shouldn’t do that.” 

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

Tony calls James late one Friday night and asks if he’s willing to talk. 

 

“Yeah, man. What’s up?”

 

“Well,” Tony paused to collect himself before continuing, “Prospect Road is closing to the public while the county finishes rezoning it. I won’t be able to go out there again for the foreseeable future.”

 

“I’m sorry to hear that, man. But, maybe it’s for the best.”

 

“I hope you’re right, but it still feels really shitty, you know?”

 

“I know, bro. Keep your chin up. You’ll get through this. You know I’m always here for you.”

 

“Thanks, man. I appreciate that.”

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

“How are things going with Prospect Road?” James asked Tony to gauge his mood a bit and strike up a conversation. “Well, it’s still closed, but I’m keeping my funding for it because it still needs it.”

 

“Why would you do that? The road is closed to the public for rezoning. It could never reopen, you know? It isn’t your job to keep funding a road that isn’t even open to the public. The County shouldn’t even be letting you fund it when they haven’t even decided what they are doing with it yet.” James’ tone was very serious and concerned as he reprimanded Tony for his actions.

 

“I don’t know, man. Maybe you’re right, but it feels wrong to stop funding the road when I already verbally committed to doing so.”

 

“It’s no longer your responsibility to uphold that commitment. It stopped being your responsibility when the County closed it.”

 

“This doesn’t sound or feel right, but I don’t have any experience with this type of situation. Maybe I’m missing something that other people already know because they've been there before. I should trust my instinct and ignore their advice.”

 

“Dissonance,” Tony stated plainly after his inner monologue had concluded. “Huh?” James replied, clueless to the decision Tony had just made.

 

“Nevermind.”

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

“Dissonance,” Tony started, “I am so conflicted and don’t know what to do. What do you think about the situation, Steve?” “I think you should do what feels right,” Steve replied. Tony’s brother and him were sitting around talking after Steve’s son’s birthday party that night. “But, that’s just the problem,” Tony protested, “I haven’t a clue what that is. In a vacuum, it feels right to keep funding the road. But, having no prior experience with which to build a solid logical argument, I don’t know how much weight I can put on that feeling. People with more experience with this matter, and whose opinions I respect, think it isn’t right to keep funding Prospect Road. They are very strongly opinionated on the matter, too. Which, quite frankly, makes me feel like a naive moron. It’s like when I first started learning Calculus and I posed a question to the teach something along the lines of ‘well, if A and B are things we can do, then does C make sense?’ and her response was basically ‘No, it isn’t. You’ll learn why in a future lesson.’ I’m sitting here thinking that I must not be far enough along in this textbook yet. I don’t feel equipped to make the correct decision, so I should just listen to the teacher.”

 

“Yeah,” Steve replied, “that makes sense to me. But make sure it is the thing you want to do first.”

 

“I think it’s the thing I’m supposed to do, not the thing I want to do.”

 

And so he did, but Tony didn’t think the County would still be willing to open Prospect Road up to the public. He, then, decided that he would just call to tell the County that he was no longer going to be funding Prospect and that he would no longer need updates on the progress of the rezoning efforts. “But, if you do reopen Prospect to the public, please let me know.” Tony added at the end of the call. After he hung up the phone, he felt relieved by the idea that this should calm his mind. He still didn’t know if he had made the right decision, but he hoped his friends were right.

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

“Hey, man. I just wanted to let you know that I acted on your advice. I’m done with Prospect Road now and I’m no longer funding it. After the rezoning is finalized, if Prospect opens back up to the public, then I’ll see about trying it out again.” Tony left the message for James on his way to the office. James had sense moved to a different company and wasn’t always the quickest at responding to his messages, so Tony wasn’t sure when he would get a response back.

 

The next day, James did finally respond by calling Tony on his way home from work.

 

“Hey, man, so what happened?”

 

“I just decided that you made really good points and that I really didn’t know what to do. If I don’t have enough information myself to make a decision, it seems like a logical approach to follow the directions of someone else’s logical argument.”

 

“Hey, man. I’m here for you if you need me. And I think you should get back out there. Don’t dwell on this too long.”

 

“I’m not going to do that. I’ll wait.”

 

“I don’t want you to wait around forever and miss another good opportunity.”

 

Tony thought to himself a moment before responding. “Well, I’m definitely not going to go actively looking for a new road to replace Prospect with, but I don’t want to go on and on about this. James is a very stubborn man.”

 

“I’ll make a deal with you: I’m not going to actively search, but how about I tell you that I won’t turn down any offers, okay?”

 

“That’s a start. That’s good enough for me, bud.” James replied and then hung up the phone.

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

“Dissonance, still. This was obviously a mistake. I didn’t know what to do, so I decided to take advice from others. I thought that was the path to take that would lead to resolution, but I’m not feeling like I made the right decision. It may have technically lead to a resolution, but it’s not an organic one. I need to stop listening and acting on the advice of others. Things were great when I thought and acted for myself. I can’t let the County think I abandoned Prospect Road and moved on or put it behind me. I still want to wait for rezoning and see what possibilities lie in the future. I just hope it’s not too late.”