I’m hungry. I’ve always been hungry. I’ve just become really adept at suppressing the hunger pangs. Even though I hunger, being sick makes me not want to eat. But, perhaps I’ve been sick because I haven’t been eating. It’s a strange paradox, for sure. 

 

I’ve noticed that, recently, I’m more aware of the hunger pangs. I think I’ve decided to stop ignoring them because they seem so much stronger than before.  My gut is screaming at me to eat. It won’t allow me to brush it off like an annoying four year old begging for ice cream when they know damn well it’s almost bed time. It now takes the shape of an FBI SWAT team ripping my front door off the hinges and swarming my house with surgical precision.

 

I can’t ignore that. I don’t want to anymore. I’m undergoing a metamorphosis in which I come out a hunter. I’m going to be precise; I’m going to be efficient; I’m going to be ravenous; I’m going to be in the Hall of Fame.

 

I’ve starved myself long enough. Now, I will hunt to extinction.

 

I’ve denied myself long enough. Now, I will give in to my primordial cravings.

 

I’ve suppressed my appetite long enough. Now, I will get my fill.

 

But I won’t ever lose my hunger. It’s a part of me. I’m not me when I don’t eat. I cannot persist if I’m not chasing the kill. No one is a hundred percent when they’re sick. I get sick if I don’t eat because I’m not fulfilling my desires; moreover, I’m not fulfilling my capabilities. I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that I can eat a lot more than I have shown. My plate is so much larger than I’ve been pretending. 

 

I think it’s this damn mask I’ve been wearing. The eyelets are too small to see everything. My altered perception made it easier for me to suppress my appetite because it appeared that my plate was already full. I didn’t want to fall victim to hubris and confuse ambition for greed. Fair is fair. I shouldn’t take more than I need. I could see well enough to see others who seemed just as hungry as I. Who am I take more than my share? But my playing small wouldn’t serve the world. It’s okay for basic instincts to steer the boat. They aren’t called “basic” because they lack complexity. They are called that because they are the basic components of ourselves, the foundation of a man. 

 

I realize now, as I undergo this metamorphosis, my most basic, primordial impulses are the most honest ones. They aren’t subjected to the filtered lens I perceive everything else with. There is no transcribing the true meaning of these impulses with anxiety as the scribe. There is no way I can over-analyze this feeling that comes from deep within me telling me what it wants me to do.  My hunger is my hunger and my hunger is my hunger. Backwards, sideways, upside down - anyway you shake it, it comes out the same.  

 

There’s no going back to before. I’ve already had my first taste of blood. That bitter, sweet, salty, warm sustenance. A nourishment I’ve never experienced - really feeding my hunger for the first time. I think I stared at the glorious sun for the rest of the evening. I watched in awe as it settled down over the horizon, slipped into its silk evening robe, and winked a ‘goodnight’ to me as its last yellow-orange ray disappeared from the skyline. But, just as the last ray faded, he wrapped me in a warm cocoon and told me to never look back.