Never change

 

There’s a concept in photography and art of perspective. Usually when someone mentions perspective in regards to photographs they are referring to the photographer. In art, the perspective is that of the viewer; but, really, the perspective is always of the viewer. 

 

Egocentrism. Inherit to all of us, egocentrism undeniably filters everything around us. It’s merely a symptom of being human. Our brains have this characteristic for a reason. We shouldn’t deny it or try to avoid it. There is much more value in understanding it so that we can properly manage the negative consequences thereof. 

 

Never change who you are

 

Egocentrism. The tendency to view everything from one’s own perspective - it is the base filter of our senses. Its pretty much impossible to completely negate the effects of egocentrism that are hard-wired into our DNA. If you don’t know what I’m talking about, then just think about that one person you know that always seems to interpret things in a strange way. You may say something without thinking about the ambiguity of your choice of words that you think is neutral at worst, but they always seem to hear the negative tone in everything. Your egocentrism is making it difficult for you to imagine how someone with their perspective could perceive your message. Their egocentrism is preventing them from seeing your innocuous remark as anything short of mean.

 

Never change who you are; learn

 

Empathy. If you learn nothing else during your time on earth, learn this: the universe doesn’t actually revolve around you. I’m sorry that your brain has deceived you. Mine did, too. I woke up today wondering about the exact method the universe would use to pay its respects to me today only to find out that the stars don’t actually have any concern with my well-being. I was just as shocked as you are right now. 

 

Don’t be discouraged. There are plenty of things you can do to compensate for egocentric behaviors. All you have to do is pause. Don’t make assumptions based on instinct. Take the time and force yourself to consider alternate perspectives to situations. You don’t have to change who you are to consider who others might be. 

 

What motivates your decisions, what determines your behaviors, and what influences your perceptions is unique to you. Everyone else has a different world behind their eyes. If the British taught us anything at all it’s that exploring other worlds is amazing and rewarding.

 

Never change who you are; learn to practice empathy.

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

“A symphony of tears shed for a loved one is much less telling of one’s character than a single tear for a stranger.”

 

 

 

. . .

 

 

 

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/104buTcnP2AsxqB7U1FIZ4" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>