It’s so frustrating to constantly be on the cusp of greatness. I’ve done so much work to carefully plant the orchard on good land. I’ve been using the best nitrate-infused fertilizer I could find. I’ve been keeping up with required maintenance. I’ve even been performing Quality Assurance checkups to ensure my high standards are being met. Yet, my labor trees have to yet to yield their fruits. They've gotten pretty close, but the fruit isn’t ripe yet. 

 

Of course, it isn’t any help that, after all of this, my anxiety is constantly reminding me that I could still fail. Why haven’t I succeeded yet? If it hasn’t happened yet, then why do I expect it to still happen? Maybe this orchard was doomed from the start. Tree rot is not easy to detect in the early stages. Maybe these beautiful, bright trees that were hand-selected for their genome actually have a defect that I haven’t noticed yet. 

 

Seedlings take time to grow. Maybe I’m just not as patient as I consider myself to be. Maybe that definition is wrong. I’ve never had problems waiting in long lines or waiting on service. Is that really a sign of patience? I’m also perfectly content with silence and don’t require constant stimulation to avoid boredom. Perhaps all that the waiting in line test shows is that I don’t get bored without constant stimulation and that all of these “impatient” people are actually just bored if they haven’t interacted with something in 30 seconds. I could be misjudging my patience levels because I’ve been using the wrong reference point. 

 

Patience, then, must be more similar to courage. Courage isn’t defined by one’s ability to avoid fear, but to act appropriately in the face of it. If we apply that to patience, then we would need to apply appropriate behavior in a situation where one could experience what? What is the driving factor behind needing to be patient? I think the driving factor of being impatient is having some unrealized result or an unknown outcome pending that one may or may not have any control over. That would mean patience is an internal struggle. The battle is lost when it comes out as frustration. Patience is calming. Patience gives me the ability to control my emotions and ward off the frustration of standing at the cusp for what feels like eternity. 

 

Patience and anxiety seem related - at least for me. This relationship might be the key I needed to unlock control over both. When I’m anticipating an event that is looming, my anxiety likes to pipe in and offer, ahem, helpful suggestions as to what the outcome might be. This causes me to become impatient, but I don’t think it’s because I can’t stand to wait for the outcome to be realized. In a vacuum, I think I could tolerate this. I just want that voice in the back of my head to shut the hell up. And what better way to accomplish that than with a smug look on my face when it was wrong again?

 

Unfortunately, this also means that I can’t actually measure my own patience levels. There are too many factors to consider; however, I feel better prepared to challenge it. I can more accurately assess the progress the orchard is making now that I’ve turned on the light and cleaned out some areas I missed the last time I cleaned my house. 

 

My labor trees aren’t behind schedule. I can wait the requisite amount of time to eat those succulent fruits.