If only I could just know everything.

 

In search of closure to these relentless jabs at my psyche, I turn to introspection. I’ve always been really talented at pulling known information into an unsolvable problem and using context and reasoning to arrive at some sort of conclusion(s). Sometimes, the answer is that there is no definitive answer - some problems require judgment calls to solve, if you’ll allow me to use that term this loosely. 

 

In your past, did you ever receive some unfortunate news that turned your world upside down and made you question yourself or your beliefs in some form or fashion?

 

Ground Level: I’ve been told things that made my stomach churn. I’ve heard stories about people I care about having dreadful experiences that made me break out into a literal fever of worry. I didn’t know it was possible to become physically ill from a verbal affliction. So, as I tend to do, I decided to analyze the situation to try to better understand it.

 

Basement Level 1: I consider myself a very empathetic person. Perhaps this physical ailment is caused by emotional trauma. Of what emotion? Am I feeling the trauma as empathy or a selfish emotion?

 

Basement Level 2: In addition to empathy, I also value very highly the well-being of the people I love. I take too much responsibility in ensuring that no harm may come to them - that their lives should be filled with happiness, laughter, and kindness, only and always. So in the event that it becomes impossible for me to do so, am I feeling inadequacy more so than empathy? My mission statement has been amended from “I will” to “I will try” and that’s not good enough for me. Shall I bring down my confidence a peg?

 

Basement Level 3: Is it confidence from which I speak or arrogance? When and who decides the nomenclature? As is the case in many other situations, I believe the answer lies in the audience. A statement of confidence is spoken from the sender to themselves. In a way, the purpose of confidence is to convince oneself that they are capable. The audience of arrogance is everyone else. The sender-receiver relationship is corrupted by the connotations carried by the arrogance. If one is truly capable, they would not need to convince others. Actions, in fact, do speak louder than words; and in the case of propagating consensus of capabilities to peers, a show of satisfactory ability would suffice. 

 

Basement Level 4: In that case, what did folly? Am I burning up here in my study because my heart is in agony, or is it my head? Have I mistaken confidence for arrogance and, now only in my shortcomings, realized as such? Am I but shattered mirrors in a glass house? Please don’t throw rocks. 

 

Basement Level 5: Worse, perhaps, is the possibility that I was sure of my capabilities because I was confident in myself. Which means that I was not blindly arrogant, but wrong. 

 

. . .

 

{Aside 1} Can I escape? I seldom remember to bring a lantern when I journey into the depths of this glass house. This far below the air is thicker, the humidity is palpable, and the light has faded.

 

. . .

 

Basement Level 6: With no more light, I must journey forth blindly. Once again, I find myself in want of what may be unattainable. How can I use the information I’ve gathered thus far to shed some light on the situation? Perhaps I’m thinking too binary. I’ve been making the assumption that the possible sources of my discontent are mutually exclusive. Could I then relinquish some ego in pursuit of knowledge? I’m always sure, but not always correct; therefore, it could be beneficial to remove my assumption and begin examining competing theories. 

 

Basement Level 7: What use is a shattered mirror if not for easing travel? I managed to salvage a shard large enough to inspect most of my face at one time while still taking up minimal space in my pack. Even still, I should not use the mirror for the purpose of vanity. The glass was not cut with precision, after all, and I would surely be seen as quite aloof were I to cut my hands in an attempt to modify my appearance. Who would even see me down here, anyway? I have not a bright enough chin to reflect this dim light towards any would-be gazer. Of course, the primary purpose for bringing this mirror is to aid in the search of light. As the most reflective surface available, this mirror will prove useful with even a slither of sun breaking through a crack.

 

. . .

 

{Aside 2} I don’t think I’ve ever ventured this far before. The moisture smells fresher here.

 

. . .

 

Basement Level 8: Let’s examine the cycle I’ve presented: 

 

An event triggers [empathy] because [reason]. But [reason] turns out to break a paradigm of protection and leads to introspection on which is more unsettling, [lost confidence] or [wrong arrogance]. The outcome is essentially the same, so I’ll just pick one to use so that I can examine their relationship. [lost confidence] means the [reason] for [empathy] could happen again. Thus, creating stronger emotional discourse from [empathy] as [inadequacy] and [feebleness] rear their ugly heads with such veracity as to startle my stomach acid. I feel such [empathy] for you because [reason] and wish I could make sure you never have to experience anything remotely similar to [reason] ever again; however, I’ve [lost confidence] in my ability to provide that promise. This leads me to [inadequacy] when I can’t change that [reason] exists and have [lost confidence] that I could really protect anyone I care about anyway. 

 

Basement Level 9: And this magnifies my [empathy] about [reason] because my [anxiety] creates [fear] that additional [reason] could occur that my [inadequacy] would stop me from preventing. 

 

Bottom Level 10: I don’t think I’m upset that I was wrong. I’m upset that, because I was wrong, I can’t guarantee things I wish to guarantee. I have to accept the fact that there are too many things - way too many things - that are completely out of my control. The world is not fair - the world is a battleground. Every organism is biologically programmed to fight for survival. Unfortunately, this often comes at the cost of other organisms’ well-being. 

 

 Bottom Level 11: Now that I’ve determined that my symptoms were caused by [inadequacy] & [lost confidence] sandwiched between two cycles of [empathy], I may just find what I’m looking for down here. The air is so damp now that it is becoming harder to tell, but that might actually be a light up ahead.